Commercial and Lending Policy

Year 2024

IA SSS FAA ONS TAL
Commercial and Lendingl Policy
Version V.2.0

Wa tu Year 2024

1 Introduction

Watu (hereinafter Watu or Company) is a dynamic and fast-growing non-bank finance company that offers
asset financing. The Company is built on five core values which are the guiding principles for company
policies, employee conduct, behaviour, and tone of voice:

Integrity. Watu believes in honest, transparent, fair, and respectful treatment of its Customers and employees.
Customer focus. Watu success goes hand-in-hand with the success of Watu Customers. Watu endeavours to
deliver world-class support and service through Customer engagement.

e Ownership. Watu promotes accountability and willingness to learn from past experiences which is the driving
force for continuous improvement culture.

e Respect. Watu promotes mutual respect and maintenance of respectful relationships within and between our
teams and with our customers and partners.

e Empowerment. Watu strives to empower its Customers by providing them with the right tools to improve their
lives.

2 Purpose and Scope

Watu is committed to ethical business practices. The purpose of the Commercial and Lending Policy
(hereinafter, Policy) is to describe the guiding principles for Watu business development and management,
that emulates the management of internal complaints and regulatory structures to include:

e Compliance with national and international laws, regulations, and the Company's policies and
procedures

e Ensure Company's business is ethical, environmentally, and socially responsible

e Standardise credit policies for the Company, giving employees clear and consistent direction for
creating risk exposures across all asset finance units,

e Provide a comprehensive guide and framework for creating and managing lending risk,

e Ensure prompt identification of problematic loans and clients and prudent management of decline
in credit quality,

e Outline the requirements for administration and reporting of individual exposures and the overall
risk asset portfolio,

e Provide a framework for the ongoing maintenance of the Company's credit risk.

The Policy covers all Watu existing and new business areas, and is applicable to all Watu permanent
employees and hired 3" party or self-employed contractors working on behalf of Watu.

3 Policy Communication and Review

This Policy communication and implementation falls under the responsibility of the Watu Management
Team. As part of a continuous improvement approach, this Policy shall be reviewed and updated annually
or more often, to ensure its relevance.

The Company has prepared a Policy Attachment which forms an integral part of this document. The Policy
attachment is reviewed and approved by the Board of the Operating Entity.

The Policy development, review, and approval is done in accordance with the Documents and Records
Management Process.

2 (14)
Sensitivity: Internal
Commercial and Lendingl Policy
Version V.2.0

Wa tu Year 2024

4 Policy Statements

4.1 Business Management

4.1.1 Service and Loan Types

The Company shall offer both long-term (more than one year) and short-term (one year or less) asset
financing services, which include:

e Mobility asset financing:
o Two-wheelers,
o  Three-wheelers (including conversion from fuel to CNG)
o  Four-wheelers
o Electric vehicles
e Connectivity asset financing (mobile devices)

All additional services shall support the core business with the aim of improving service delivery, reducing
risk, increasing Customer value or improving Customer experience.

Mobility asset financing loan includes a portion of the vehicle purchase price, along with the cost of
insurance (where not purchased by the Customer separately), taxes and tariffs, and other costs associated
with the loan issuance.

The Company also issues mobility asset repair loans where Borrowers in good standing on their existing
loan can receive additional financing for their vehicle repairs, should that be necessary. The financed
amount is added to the Borrower's existing loan balance, and repayments are distributed in the remaining
term of the loan.

Watu shall not issue cash loans and only finance mobility and connectivity assets sold by verified
distributors based on an invoice issued by the distributor to the Borrower. The payment is made directly to
the seller of the asset on behalf of the Borrower.

4.1.2 Sources of Funds
The Company's lending operations are financed from following sources:

Shareholders’ funds,

Borrowing from banks and other financial institutions,
Issuance of debt instruments in the financial markets,
Reinvestment of profits.

4.1.3 Service Localization

Watu aims to standardise service delivery across different geographies to improve efficiency and
effectiveness, and offer consistently good Customer experience. Changes to service delivery (localizations)
should be limited as much as possible but will be allowed to support the local market needs.

Any changes (localizations) to standard service delivery must be reviewed and approved in accordance with
the Change Management Process.

4.1.4 New Service Development

New products and services shall be first researched based on the market's demand. New product and
service development shall be done in compliance with Service Design Process and Watu Expansion
Strategy.

3 (14)
Sensitivity: Internal
Commercial and Lendingl Policy
Version V.2.0

Wa tu Year 2024

All new products and services shall first be tested through a pilot case study. The pilot case should be
preferably tested in a mature market, due to proximity of the key staff, and availability of necessary
infrastructure and support.

All new services and products should be developed considering possibilities for scalability to other markets.

4.1.5 New Market Development
Watu aims to be Africa's leading asset financing company by 2028.

To evaluate a possibility to expand Watu business to new markets, Watu shall conduct high-level research
and compare research results with data gathered from partner or market research companies. The
research areas shall include but shall not be limited to the following categories:

Current and potential sales,

Distributor presence,

Possible market challenges, risks and risk mitigation,

Financial market regulations,

Legal & tax compliance,

Customer needs,

Talent pool,

Infrastructure,

Product affordability and adaptability

Collection and maintenance of market and product related research.

When possible and feasible, to increase the expansion speed and mitigate risks, Watu shall aim to engage a
strong local partner for entering new markets.

4.1.6 Tools and Systems

Watu shall provide all necessary tools and systems for its employees to deliver Watu services. Employees
shall deliver services using only Watu approved and provided systems and tools. Self-developed tools must
be verified and approved before they can be used for service delivery.

All mobility assets shall be equipped with a GPS tracking device. The Company shall maintain a system to
track assets at all times to mitigate theft and fraud risks.

As part of the Continuous Improvement process, Watu shall work to develop and improve its systems to
help support business efficiency, effectiveness and transparency.

4.1.7 Contract

Company's staff shall not issue independent Watu asset loans to clients and/or conduct insider trading
under the guise and/or representation of Watu by way of contract and/or otherwise.

All loans shall be issued in accordance with and fulfilment of the on-boarding requirements, terms and
conditions of the loan and governing procedures of the country, only after an agreement, that sets out the
terms and conditions of the loan, shall be signed between Watu and the Customer.

The Legal Department shall develop and maintain a standard Loan Agreement, Security Agreement and
Authorization form that contains loan terms and conditions, and other supporting documents. All loans
shall be issued only using the approved standard forms.

Any modifications to the approved standard agreement form shall be developed and approved by the
Company’s Legal Department.

Connectivity asset loan documents shall be signed electronically and only kept in an electronic format.
Mobility asset loan documents shall be stored in both paper and digital format.

4(14)
Sensitivity: Internal
Commercial and Lendingl Policy
Version V.2.0

Wa tu Year 2024

4.1.8 Currency

All services shall be provided and loan repayments shall be made in the local currency or major
international currency, if it is widely used in a particular market or location.

4.1.9 Payment Methods

The Company has a strict “No Cash” policy and does not accept cash from Customers for any services.
Repayment of loans shall be done strictly via electronic transfers using local mobile money providers.

As an exception, when expanding service delivery to new markets, cash payments may be accepted in
cases where there are no reliable systems to collect money electronically.

Employees and service providers stationed at Watu premises are not permitted to transact on behalf of
Watu customers where customers do not have access to either mobile money or bank transfer systems.

4.1.10 Environment, Social, Governance (ESG) Considerations

Watu does not and shall not discriminate on the basis of race, colour, religion (creed), gender, gender
expression, age, national origin (ancestry), disability, marital status, sexual orientation, or military status, in
any of its activities or operations.

Watu is committed to fair and ethical business practices that help drive the local economy by offering
sustainable financing. To comply with this goal, long-term (loan period above 12 months), high-value asset
loans shall mainly be issued for Customers who plan to use these assets for business purposes. To ensure
the Customer is able to repay the loan, Company's mobility asset finance program shall be calibrated to
ensure that the Borrower utilises the financed asset, generating income several times higher than the
required repayment amount.

The calibration of the Company's mobility asset finance program shall allow the median Borrower to have a
higher take-home pay than currently. For the targeted customer base, the program shall lead both to a
valuable asset in their personal portfolios and a substantive increase in daily income while repaying the
loan and afterwards.

Watu shall only issue loans to Customers that have reached the statutory legal age of the country of
operations and meet the loan issuance requirements.

Watu is committed to implementing governance structures that provide appropriate levels of oversight in
the areas of audit, risk management, and conflict of interest, and to implement compensation and other
policies that align the interests of owners and management.

Watu is committed to comply with environmental regulations in all areas of operation.

4.1.11 Data Security
The electronic records shall be stored securely on Company’s computer systems.

All physical and electronic documents and records shall be managed (collected, maintained, stored and
disposed of) in accordance with the Data Privacy and Protection Policy, Information and Cyber Security
Management Policy and Documents and Records management Process.

4.2 Loan Issuance

The Company shall set up various service locations to provide ease of access to potential Customers. The
Company shall provide answers to any inquiries related to products and services to the Customer.

5(14)
Sensitivity: Internal
Commercial and Lendingl Policy
Version V.2.0

Wa tu Year 2024

4.2.1 Customer Onboarding

The Company shall develop and maintain Customer Onboarding Process based on the principles provided
in this Policy.

For mobility assets:

e Prior to Customer onboarding, the Company's employee shall conduct a brief face-to-face interview
with a potential Customer to obtain information about the Customer's background, the intended
use of the asset, and experience to detect any suspicious circumstances.

e The Company shall request the Customer to fill an initial authorisation form for data processing
and credit reference bureau check. The collected information shall include Borrower's and
Guarantor’s full name, ID number and contact details. The Company employees shall check the
information against the data in Company's system to detect possible fraudulent activities or
identify previous bad debtors.

Upon initial data approval, the Company's employee shall collect and enter in the Company's system the
remaining necessary data for loan application which include but is not limited to:

Personal details,

Contact details (address, telephone),

Preferred weekly payment amount;

Details about the Guarantor, including their relation to the Borrower,
Information about Referees and their contact details,

Information about client’s income.

For mobility assets, additional collected information shall include:

e Area of operation,
e Selected vehicle data,
e Information about client's assets.

The loan application form shall be reviewed and signed by the Borrower and Company's employee.

The Company's employee shall verify the data to determine if the Borrower qualifies for loan issuance and
there are no suspicious circumstances (including no negative information from the credit reference
bureau). The Company reserves the right to request additional information from the Borrower and/or the
Guarantor prior to issuing the loan.

The decision to issue the loan shall be taken by the Company at its sole discretion. The Company reserves
the right to reject the loan application in case the Customer doesn’t meet the loan eligibility criteria, is not
able to provide the necessary information, has previous defaults, or the Company has suspicion of potential
fraudulent activities.

The Board of Directors may decide that in certain high-risk areas (e.g. near the borders or high crime
incidence areas), a pre-onboarding visit is required to the Borrower's residence.

The approved loan amount for the purchase of the asset is transferred directly by the Company to the asset
distributor on behalf of the client.

4.2.2 Loan Financing

The Company shall develop a loan financing approach, specifying loan financing period, interest rates and
other applicable fees. In development of the said fees, the Company shall consider the Customer's ability to
repay the loan.

The evaluation for Customer's ability to repay the loan is described in the Policy Attachment |, section A,
sub-section 1.

6 (14)
Sensitivity: Internal
Commercial and Lendingl Policy
Version V.2.0

Wa tu Year 2024

Interest rate and all other fees associated with Watu loans are calibrated to be competitive in the market
and commercially viable.

Loan financing periods, interest rates and all other fees shall be reviewed on an annual basis or as per
business needs, to ensure continued compliance with laws, regulations, market conditions, and risk.

4.2.2.1 Down Payment

To ensure that potential Borrowers are serious about their future loan commitments, the Borrower shall be
required to make a minimum down payment at the point of signing the loan documents. The down
payment amount may vary from time to time depending on the asset prices and economic changes that
may occur.

The down payment amounts are specified in the Policy Attachment |, section A, sub-section 2.
4.2.2.2 Loan Period and Interest Rate
All loan interest rates shall be aligned to the governing national Consumer Protection regulations.

The loan interest rate shall be determined based on the asset type. Different markets may have different
interest rates as other rate determining factors include local legislation, market conditions, Customer
profile, Customer earning potential and risk.

The loan financing period shall be determined based on the asset type and the Customer's ability to cover
the weekly payment.

The loan periods and interest rates are specified in the Policy Attachment I, section A., sub-section 3.
4.2.2.3. Loan Servicing Fee

In addition to the interest charges, the Borrower shall pay a mandatory loan servicing fee. The fee amount
may vary for each asset type and country of operations. The loan servicing fee is added to the total loan
amount and repaid subsequently paid through the weekly payment schedule.

The loan servicing fees are specified in the Policy Attachment |, section A, sub-section 4.
4.2.2.4 Other Fees

Watu may charge late payment interest or fees in compliance with contractual obligations and local
Consumer Protection regulations. Late payment interest or fees shall be calculated for mature loans on the
outstanding principal amount. Interest is not compounded, meaning late interest payments are
accumulated and added to the total Customer debt but are not added to the principal amount that is used
in interest calculation.

Watu shall reschedule the loan and shall not charge additional interest for the time period while the asset is
in Watu storage, undergoing repairs, or in other circumstances where the Customer has agreed a loan
repayment grace period.

Other fees that may apply, as determined by the Board of Directors. The fee type and amount may vary for
each asset type and country of operations.

Other fees are specified in the Policy Attachment I, section A., sub-section 5.

4.2.3 Loan Eligibility Requirements

The Company shall develop and maintain loan eligibility requirements. The eligibility requirements may
change depending on the country of operations and financed asset type.

The eligibility requirements shall be during the Policy review but can also be reviewed separately, to ensure
continued compliance with laws, regulations, market conditions, and risk.

7 (14)
Sensitivity: Internal
Commercial and Lendingl Policy
Version V.2.0

Wa tu Year 2024

The detailed eligibility requirement list is provided in the Policy Attachment I, section B.

4.2.4 Loan Documents

The loan document package shall include the following documents:

Loan Documents Mobility | Connectivity
Assets Assets
Contact and Authorization Form v v
Consent for data processing Vv
Loan application form v
Loan Agreement (special terms and general terms) Vv
Payment Request Vv

Guarantee Agreement

Security Agreement

Payment

Vehicle Registration Documents, including power of attorney

Oe i fe i fe i fo i

Insurance records

Additional to electronic copies of the above documents, the electronic loan record shall also include:

e Borrower's and, where applicable, Guarantor’s KYC information,
e Pictures of the Borrower, Guarantor and asset.

4.2.5 Loan Collateral

All issued loans shall be secured with the financed asset as a collateral. No other forms of collateral shall
be required from approved Customers. Land properties are not required nor accepted as collateral for
Company’s loans.

A Guarantor assumes the same responsibilities of the loan repayment obligations as the Borrower. A
Guarantor is not required to place any additional collateral.

Loan collateral registration approach details are provided in the Policy Attachment |, section C.

4.2.6 Loan Processing, Approval or Rejection

The Company intends to ensure same-day service.

Asset Type Loan application processing time
Two-Wheelers 2 hours

Three-Wheelers 2 hours

Four-Wheelers 3 hours

Electric Vehicles 2 hours

Mobile Devices 1 hour

Customers whose applications have been rejected shall be informed the same day, either personally on-site
or via SMS. The Company shall provide information about the rejection reasons.

The Company reserves the right to permanently deny products and services to applicants that have
provided false or fraudulent information in prior and current applications. Such individuals’ information shall
be recorded and stored in the Company's blacklist.

8 (14)
Sensitivity: Internal
Commercial and Lendingl Policy
Version V.2.0

Wa tu Year 2024

4.2.7 Loan Repayment Calculation and Scheduling

The total loan amount and interest shall be calculated using the approved Watu systems in compliance
with rules and regulations defined in respective national guidelines. Any changes to loan calculation
principles shall only affect new loans.

The Company shall use the reducing balance method for loan repayment, which means that the monthly
payment amount paid by the Customer shall remain the same, while the interest paid on the loan will
decrease over time and the principal amount repaid will increase.

The Customer loan repayment schedule shall be calculated for weekly or monthly instalments, based on
the asset type. The Customer may decide to make daily, weekly, or monthly payments regardless of the
schedule. The total repayment amount shall be fixed and shall not change except in case of loan
restructuring and/or where additional fees are added to the loan.

4.2.8 Loan Limits

Borrowers can borrow up to the maximum value of the asset, including all Company's fees.

Watu shall only finance one loan at a time for the Customer with the exception where the Customer has a
loan for a connectivity asset. In this case, a mobility asset loan can be issued. In this instance, the issuance
of the new loan shall be determined against the current loan repayment history and remaining balance.

Well paying Customers shall be eligible to borrow additional sums from the loan account to finance mobility
asset repairs. The additional borrowed amount shall be added to the original loan and the loan shall be
restructured. Payments for these loans shall be paid by the Company directly to a verified and designated
repair shop.

4.3 Collateral Management

4.3.1. Asset/Collateral Protection

To protect the mobility assets (collateral), the Company requires that each vehicle is equipped with a GPS
tracking device. The asset/collateral shall be tracked 24/7 by the Company. Any tampering with or
malfunction of the GPS devices shall be flagged by the Company’s systems. In such events the Company
shall engage the Asset Recovery Team to ensure the asset/collateral can be recovered as soon as possible.

Customers purchasing high-value, long-term loan assets (small and large mobility assets) shall be required
to purchase comprehensive insurance from accredited service providers in the Country of operations. It is
the Customers’ responsibility to directly liaise with their insurance provider for any claims or processing.

In the event of a legitimate claim being confirmed by both the Company and the Customer's insurance
provider, the Company may choose to provide a replacement asset (if available) to the Customer,
considering factors such as the Customer's historic credit performance.

Connectivity assets shall be equipped with a locking technology that allows to remotely disconnect the
Borrower from the service, in case the loan repayments are not honoured. The device shall be unlocked
after the Borrower has made the required payment.

4.3.2 Voluntary Asset Return

The Customer may voluntarily return the asset to Watu. The Customer may introduce a new possible
borrower and request to transfer the loan. In other cases, the asset (in the capacity of the collateral) will be
disposed of in the second-hand asset market in its present condition or following any commercially
reasonable preparation or repairs.

4.3.3 Asset Repossession

Where the customer is unable to repay the loan, the asset might be repossessed.
9 (14)
Sensitivity: Internal
Commercial and Lendingl Policy
Version V.2.0

Wa tu Year 2024

Watu aims to avoid asset repossession where possible, working with the Customer to enable them to
continue loan repayment.

Assets shall be repossessed if the Customer defaults on the loan. The specific rules for asset repossession
are described in relevant procedures.

Customers shall be granted a grace period in accordance with the local legislation, after the asset is
repossessed, during which the Customer can reclaim the asset. The rules for asset return to the Customer
are described in respective Customer Support procedures and guidelines.

4.3.4 Mobility Asset Storage

Watu shall store Customer assets during the time when they are not able to or can’t use the asset. The loan
payments are suspended (loan is rescheduled) for the time during which the asset is in Watu storage.

Employees are not allowed to store second hand assets within the premises of the warehouse for more
than 24 hours without written approval from the Head of Department, after a disposal has been completed.

4.3.5 Mobility Asset Theft

The Company shall maintain an emergency service line to assist Customers in case of asset theft.

All asset theft cases must be reported to the Police. All cases where the Customer has not or refuses to
report the case shall be considered as possible fraud cases and submitted for investigation.

All asset theft cases shall be registered in internal systems. The Company shall attempt to retrieve the
asset within 72 hours of the incident reporting, before submitting the case to the Insurance Department for
processing.

4.3.6 Mobility Asset Accidents and Vandalism

All cases where the Customer notifies the Company that the asset has suffered in an accident or has been
vandalised, shall be registered in the Insurance register. All registered cases shall be evaluated by the
Insurance department to determine if the damage repair can be covered by the Insurance Provider.

The Customer shall be mandated to report the case to the Police to be eligible for insurance coverage. If the
Customer has not or refuses to report the case to the Police, the Company may initiate investigation to
determine if the case is a suspected fraud case.

The Company may cover a part or a full asset repair cost that is not covered by the insurance. Each case
shall be evaluated separately based on the Customer past payment performance. Customers who have
arrears or have been known to miss payments, shall be required to contribute a part of repair cost.

Where any part of the asset repairs are covered by the Insurance Provider and/or the Company, the asset
repairs shall be done only in Watu pre-qualified garages or repair shops.

Watu shall finance 100% of repair costs only if the Customer has a good repayment history, does not have
past or current arrears, and the case has been reviewed and the financing approved by the Customer
Service specialist.

In cases where the Company shall finance a part or a full asset repair cost, the Company representative
shall reach out to the Customer to inquire about co-financing of the repairs. The loan shall be refinanced by
the repair value not covered by the Insurance Provider and the Customer. .

4.3.7 Mobility Asset Treatment in Case of Customer Death

In case the Customer dies during the loan servicing period, due to natural circumstances such as sickness
or old age, or the death is caused by an accident where the financed asset is not involved, Watu shall:

e Discuss with the Customer's appointed successor the possibilities for taking over the loan repayment.

10 (14)
Sensitivity: Internal
Commercial and Lendingl Policy
Version V.2.0

Wa tu Year 2024

e Incase the Customer appointed successor is not willing to take over the loan, offer to transfer the loan to the
Customer's family or the next of kin who is willing to accept the loan transfer,

e Sell the asset in the second-hand market, if the next of kin is not willing to accept the loan transfer. The old
loan shall be closed after the asset is sold.

In case if the Customer death is caused by an accident while riding the financed asset and the asset is still
serviceable, Watu shall:

e Discuss with the Customer's appointed successor the possibilities for taking over the loan repayment.

e Incase the Customer appointed successor is not willing to take over the loan, offer to transfer the loan to the
Customer's family or the next of kin who is willing to accept the loan transfer.

e Incase the next of kin is an immediate relative (parent, sibling, spouse or child), Watu may offer to write off the
remaining asset value and give the asset to the next of kin.

Loans for severely damaged assets that are no longer serviceable will be written off.

4.3.8 Collateral Disposal in Second-Hand Marketplace

The second-hand assets comprise of Watu owned assets and/or assets that are taken as a collateral that
are voluntarily returned by the Customer, repossessed assets for defaulting loans, where the asset was not
reclaimed by the original Customer, and repossessed assets for deceased Customers where the loan was
not transferred to the next of kin.

4.4 Loan Management

4.4.1 Monitoring and Evaluation of Credit quality

The Company shall manage its loan portfolio by assigning approved loans to specific employees
responsible for loan portfolio management. To ensure loan portfolio monitoring and loan quality evaluation:

e The Company shall implement a monitoring system that sends out automatic reminders to
Borrowers the day before the payment is due.

e In cases where the payment falls overdue, the Company representative shall call the Borrower to
remind of their payment obligations.

e Borrowers shall be required to commit to a date for payment. Borrowers that commit to paying but
fail, shall receive a follow-up call.

If the collection efforts fail, the Company shall initiate recovery and repossess the collateral based on a
number of factors, including but not limited to:

Number of days in arrears,

Number of instalments in arrears,

Amount in arrears,

Days since last payment,

Any extenuating factors, like sickness or road accident, vehicle in repair.

The Head of the Recovery Department shall adopt the final decision to repossess the collateral.

4.4.2 Provisioning for Bad Debt

The Company shall calculate and make provisions for bad debt in compliance with the International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and local laws and regulations.

Provision for bad debt details are provided in the Policy Attachment |, section D.

4.4.3 Loan Restructuring

Watu shall offer loan restructuring to Customers to:

11 (14)
Sensitivity: Internal
Commercial and Lendingl Policy
Version V.2.0

Wa tu Year 2024

e = Adjust the loan term,
e = Adjust the loan amount.

All cases for loan restructuring shall be evaluated separately in accordance with respective procedures and
guidelines.

4.4.4 Loan Rescheduling

Watu shall, in exercise of its discretion, reschedule the Customer loans by delaying the next due payment in
cases where:

The asset shall be in Watu storage,

The Customer requests rescheduling due to injury or sickness,

The asset is in the police custody and/or any other statutory custody,
The asset is undergoing repairs,

Other cases agreed between the Customer and Watu.

4.4.5 Loan Transfer
The Company shall transfer an existing loan to another borrower in the following cases:

e Client request - In this case, the Customer shall introduce the potential borrower to Watu. Watu shall only
transfer the loan to the new borrower in case the new borrower meets all Watu requirements for issuing a new
loan.

e Customer death - In case of the death of a customer, Watu will offer to transfer a loan to the next of kin (NOK).
The NOK who doesn’t accept the transfer shall be required to sign a form which will allow the Company to
dispose of the asset in the second-hand market.

4.4.6 Loan Write-off

All asset theft, accident and vandalism cases must be reported to the Police and to the Company by the
Customer. Watu shall write off the remaining unpaid asset loan value in cases when the Customer can
provide the reported case Police Abstract when:

e The asset has been stolen and not recovered, for the difference between remaining asset value and
insurance claim.

e Asset is damaged beyond repair in an accident or vandalism case, for the difference between
remaining asset value and insurance claim,

e Incase of Customer death if the death was caused by an accident while operating the asset, for the
difference between remaining asset value and insurance claim

e Assets that can’t be recovered or where the recovery cost exceeds the remaining asset value.

In theft cases with suspicious circumstances where the Customer involvement is suspected, the Company
shall conduct an investigation and consult Company's Senior Management before the loan shall be written
off. All write-offs are approved by the Board of Directors.

4.5 Customer Support

4.5.1 Customer Service

Watu recognizes the value of helping its Customers with solving issues, related to thefts, accidents,
technical issues, service delivery related inquiries, and other issues, during the loan servicing period. The
Company has developed and will implement the Customer Service Policy to ensure Where possible and
feasible, Watu shall establish special services and helplines through which the Customers may receive the
necessary support.

12 (14)
Sensitivity: Internal
Commercial and Lendingl Policy
Version V.2.0

Wa tu Year 2024

4.5.2 Customer Refund

Watu will return to the Customer, who had the original loan, the excess made from the disposal of the asset
or receiving the insurance claim, after covering asset cost, interest and other accrued costs as per relevant
procedure and guidelines.

In cases where a direct refund is not possible, the excess shall be transferred to the local Unclaimed
Financial Assets Authority.

4.6 Roles And Responsibilities
The Roles and Responsibilities are described in the Policy Attachment |, Section E.
4.7 Policy Compliance

4.7.1 Loan Financing for Company Employees

Company employees are prohibited from purchasing new or second-hand mobility assets from the
Company directly or through proxies. Obtaining loans to purchase connectivity assets is allowed however,
employees need to inform the Company about the obtained loan.

The Company shall maintain a separate portfolio for employee loans to ensure better monitoring.

All employees with existing loans shall be required to register them with the Compliance and Investigations
Department in accordance with Internal Asset Loan Ownership Declaration Guideline.

4.7.2 Avoiding Conflict of Interest
Company employees are prohibited from processing or managing their own loans.

Where historical loan agreements exist, or loans for persons that they may have a personal or business
relationship with. Employees must report all possible conflict of interest cases in accordance with the
Conflict of Interest Policy

4.7.3. Fraud Management

Both internal and external fraud is a punishable crime. All suspected fraud cases shall be investigated by
the Compliance and Investigations Department and engaging the law enforcement, when necessary.

Employees suspected to have participated in a fraud case shall be subjected to an internal investigation in
accordance with the relevant internal policies and procedures and national law, where necessary.

Criminal proceedings may be instituted against former employees where there is evidence to lodge a case
against them in light of this policy.

4.7.4 Policy Violation Management

Violation of this policy and any other related policies outlined here under will constitute a disciplinary
offence. Any employee who is in breach of this policy and any other related policy will be subjected to
disciplinary action in compliance with the Disciplinary Policy, up to and including termination of
employment and dismissal where applicable.

13 (14)
Sensitivity: Internal
Commercial and Lendingl Policy
Version V.2.0

Wa tu Year 2024

Policy Approval

The Commercial and Lending Policy has been reviewed and approved by

Head of Growth/Bolaji Awobamise/—<) 123-05-2024

Position / Name and Surname / Signature / Date

Position / Name and Surname / Signature / Date

Position / Name and Surname / Signature / Date

Position / Name and Surname / Signature / Date

Position / Name and Surname / Signature / Date

Position / Name and Surname / Signature / Date

14(14)
Sensitivity: Internal
