New Customer Onboarding in
Dealerships

Watu Process Description
Version V.1.0
Publication date: 14/04/2023

IAS GALEN IA

Sensitivity: Internal wd tu
1

11

1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5

2

2.1

2.2
2.5
2.4

3

4
5
6

Table of Contents

Overview

Purpose and Gaal
Scope
Main inputs and outputs
Roles and responsibilities
Systems and Templates

Process lifecycle

Loan Eligibility Assessment
CRB Check

Loan Agreement Preparation
Asset Release

RACI matrix
Process key performance indicators & metrics
Related documents

Terms and abbreviation

Sensitivity: Internal

OA fF ARF WAD

a
a
Oo oa

Nh fw NM
raw SN

watu
New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description
Version V.1.0

Wd c U Date: 4/14/2023

1 Overview

This Document defines and regulates New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process within Watu.

This process description is intended to be used for training Dealership employees who are onboarding
Watu Customers on the new loans through Watu Onboarding System (OBS).

1.1. Purpose and Goal

The purpose of New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process is to give a general process
overview, describing responsibilities of different roles engaged in the process. The process is
description aims introduce clarity and transparency within the organization and helo the Dealership
staff better to understand the process.

The goal of the New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process is to provide sufficient guidance for
new customer onboarding for all involved roles to ensure a smooth and transparent Customer
onboarding process and provide good Customer experience.

1.2 Scope
This document describes high-level principles and the procedure of the New Customer Onboarding in
Dealerships process. More detailed information about the process can be found in the work instructions

or other documents specitied in the Section Related documents by Process Owner and Process
Manager respectively.

In the scope of New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process is Customer onboarding by the
Dealer's staff for Assets which include two wheelers (boda-bodas) and three-wheelers (tuk-tuks).

Out of scope for New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process is Customer onboarding for other
Watu products, namely, electric vehicles (e-boda), cars (Watu Gari), or phones (Watu Simu).

1.3. Main inputs and outputs

New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships defines inputs and outputs that impact the process.

INPUT PROCESS OUTPUT

FIELD MARKETING WATU DRIVING SCHOOL
NEW CUSTOMER
WORD OF MOUTH ONBOARDING CUSTOMER CARE
DEALERSHIP MARKETING
ACTIVITIES

3 (24)

Sensitivity: Internal
New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description
Version V.1.0

Wd c U Date: 4/14/2023

1.3.1 Input

e =Field Marketing - The process can be initiated by Watu field marketing activities where new customers are
attracted through targeted campaigns.

e = Word of Mouth - Customers can hear of Watu services through their friends, relatives or acquaintances, thus
visit the Dealership.

e §=Dealershio Marketing Activities - Customers can be attracted to the Dealerships through marketing activities
organized by the Dealerships.

1.3.2 Output

e Watu Driving School - in Nairobi region, the Customers may be offered to attend Watu Driving School to
complete a theoretical study course to be eligible for taking a state organized test and obtaining a driver's
license.

e Customer Care - after the Customer has been onboarded, Watu Customer Care will initiate further contact to
provide the necessary support to the Customer during the loan servicing period.

1.4 Roles and responsibilities

The following roles are involved in the process execution:

Role Customer or Borrower
Role purpose e To purchase an Asset (boda-boda or tuk-tuk)
Authorities (A) ® To borrow the funds for Asset financing and sign loan documents
Responsibilities (R) ® Toensure the necessary loan issuing requirements are met
Role Assignment e Any physical person purchasing an Asset through the Dealership using Watu
services
Role Customer Onboarding Officer
Role purpose e To prepare loan documents and onboard Customers using Watu Onboarding
System
Authorities (A) e To prepare and sign Customer loan agreements for Asset financing on Watu
behalf
Responsibilities (R) e To precisely and accurately follow Customer Onboarding instructions provided
in this process description, work instructions and all other training materials
e Toensure the Customers receive clear and accurate information about loan terms
e Toconduct alldue-diligence checks and inform Dealership management or Watu
Back Office employees about any suspicious cases
Role Assignment e §=6Assigned Dealershio employee(s)

4 (24)

Sensitivity: Internal
New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description
Version V.1.0

Wd c U Date: 4/14/2023

Role Back Office Officer
Role purpose e To validate information and approve loan issuance requests
Authorities (A) e® To review provided information and approve, reject or cancel the loan requests

submitted by the Customer Onboarding Officer

Responsibilities (R) ® To follow Watu internal processes for validating loan request information
e Tonotify Back Office Management about any suspicious cases

e To evaluate criteria for loan eligibility

e Toapprove, reject or cancel a loan request

e To provide guidance and clearinstructions to Customer Onboarding Officers for
necessary corrections or when additional information is needed

e To provide information about loan rejection or cancelation reasons

Role Assignment e Watu Back Office department employee

1.5 Systems and Templates

Define systems and templates used in the process

System or Direct reference Details Personal Data

Template ID Processing

$1 - OBR https://mx.watucredit.com/# OBR is Watu Customer Name, Last name,
Onboarding System. The Address, email
system is used during loan address, phone
issuing process to collect all number

necessary information.

$2 - Google httos://drive.qoogle.com/driv This Google drive folder is N/A
Drive e/u/2/folders/iR7dfbofXsLSWJA | used to store information
bAStCOAMRXbnTaddkUo about GPS tracker receipts for

pre-tracked Assets.

5 (24)

Sensitivity: Internal
New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description
Version V.1.0

Wd c U Date: 4/14/2023

2 Process lifecycle

The New Customer Onboarding Process is splitin four phases. Each phase is described separately in
the following sections.

Loan Eligibility
Assessment

Loan Agreement

CRB Check Preparation

Asset Release

2.1 Loan Eligibility Assessment

During the Loan Eligibility Assessment phase, the Customer Onboarding Officer performs initial due-
diligence checks to ensure the Customer meets loan issuance requirements.

New Customer Onboarding

1. Loan Eligibility Assessment

=
=

se

Phase 2: CRB
Check, 2.1, 2.5

Field
Marketing

Customer

—

Customer Onboarding Officer

Process description

Process flow and main RACI for parties to clearly indicate who will be responsible (R), accountable (A),
consulted (C) and informed (I) in regard to a task.

6 (24)

Sensitivity: Internal
watu

New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description
Version V.1.0
Date: 4/14/2023

The role abbreviations in the RACI matrix are used as follows: Customer (C), Customer Onboarding

Officer (COO).

Step

Description

COO

1.1 Visit Dealership

1.2 Pre-tracked Asset?

1.3 Contact Watu
technician to install a
tracker

1.4 Check min
requirements and KYC
Questions

1.5 Requirements met?

1.6 Reject the loan and
explain the issues

1.7 Advise how to
address the issues

1.8 Ensure fulfilment of
requirements

Sensitivity: Internal

The Customer visits the dealership. The reasons for the visit may
vary, including seeking the information about the possibility to buy
an asses as well as coming in to make a purchase.

If the Customer comes in seeking Information, the Customer

Onboarding Officer (COC) should explain the requirements for
obtaining the loan for Asset financing.

The COO conducting the onboarding should check if the Asset that
is selected by the Customer has a Watu GPS tracker installed at the
point of assembly.

If the tracker is installed, the process continues with step 1.4.

If the tracker is not installed, the process continues with step 1.3

If the Asset does not have a pre-installed Watu tracker but the
Customer wished to purchase it using a loan from Watu, the COO
must contact Watu technician and request tracker installation.

The COO checks if the Customer meets the minimum requirements
(available here) for obtaining the loan:

e The Borrower is at least 18 years old.

e The Borrower has come together with a Guarantor. For
Borrowers who are 18 and 19 years old, the Guarantor needs to
be the legal guardian. For Borrowers who are 20 years old or
older, the Guarantor can be any friend or relative.

e The Borrower can make the minimum down-payment

e The Customer has Kenya Revenue Authority (NRA) issued PIN
number. The PIN number must be issued to the Borrower. No
other PIN numbers are accepted.

Additionally, the Borrower should have three Referees that could
vouch for the Borrower. The Referees should include a next of kin
and a Stage Chairman.

The COO also asks the Customer the basic KYC questions (the
questions and detailed actions are available here).

The COO makes a decision based on the minimum requirement
check. If the requirements are not met, continue with step 1.4. If the
check is successful, continue with step 1.7.

If the Customer doesn't meet any one of the minimum requirements,
the COO must reject the loan. The COO must explain the rejection
reasons to the Customer.

The COO must explain what the Customer should do in order to be
eligiole for obtaining the loan.

The Customer is responsible for addressing the issues, after which,
the Customer can return to the Dealership and reapply for the loan.

RA

RA

RA

RA

RA

RA

RA

RA

7 (24)
watu

New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description
Version V.1.0
Date: 4/14/2023

Step Description Cc COO
1.9 Prepare Contact If the Customer meets the minimum requirements, the COO will ask Cc RA
form and request the Customer to provide the MPesa statement for the previous 6
MPesa statement months. When the Customer receives the statement, they must
provide the OTP number to the COO. The instruction to complete
this part if the step is available here.
While the Customer is requesting the statement, the COO shall
prepare a Contact and Authorization form. The form is used to
collect the following information:
e Borrower's name, ID number, phone number
®  Guarantor’s name, ID number, phone number
e Referees names, phone numbers, relationship with the Borrower
The instruction for filling the form is available here.
Ensure that there is a Data Privacy Agreement (DPA) added to the
form when preparing the document package. The DPA is pre-
prepared and no information should be added to it.
1.10 Enter data in OBR | After the COO has filled out the Contact and Authorization form, the Cl RA
and check eligibility COO enters the following data in the Watu Onboarding System
(OBR):
e Borrower's name, ID number, phone number
®  Guarantor’s name, ID number, phone number
Afterwards, the COO checks the Borrower's and the Guarantor's
eligibility in the system. The following criteria apply:
e Borrower doesn't have other open loans
e if the Guarantor is an existing Watu customer, he must be a
Customer for at least one month before becoming a Guarantor
for another loan
e The Guarantor can only guarantee up to 2 loans.
The instruction for the step is available here.
1.11 Eligible? If the Customer and the Guarantor meet the eligibility criteria RA
mentioned in the step 1.8, continue on to step 1.10.
If the Customer or the Guarantor doesn't meet any one of the
eligibility criteria mentioned in step 1.8, reject the loan and revert
back to step 1.4.
1.12 Explain the form If the Customer and the Guarantor meets the eligibility criteria, RA
to Customer and ask explain the Contact and Authorization form and the DPA to the
to sign Customer and the Guarantor and ask the Customer to sign both
documents. The instruction for signing is available here.
1.13 Sign the form and | The COO and the Customer sign the Contact and Authorization R A
Data Protection form and Data Protection Agreement.
Agreement
1.14 Scan IDs and The COO scans the Customer and the Guarantor IDs, the signed RA
signed form, and add form and DPA and uploads them to the OBR. A video instruction
to OBR explaining how to scan documents is available here.
8 (24)

Sensitivity: Internal
New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description
Version V.1.0

wd tu Date: 4/14/2023

Step Description Cc COO
1.15 Approve for CRB The COO approves the submitted data in the OBR system thus RA
processing for BO sending it to the Watu Back Office for further processing.
Phase 2: CRB Check, The process for COO continues to the Phase 2, CRB Check, step 2.1.
2.1 The Back Office officer will in the mean time start CRB check, step

2.5.

2.2. CRB Check

During the second stage of the process, the Back Office officers (BO) check specific requirements to
issue a loan to the Customer. The loan can be approved for further processing, cancelled if specific
requirements are not met, or rejected for corrections if there is incomplete or missing information.

New Customer Onboarding

2. CRB Check

2,2 Has
driver's

Phase 1: Loan
Eligibility
Assessment, 1.15

2.1 Nairobi
location?

Parallel flow

Phase 3: Loan
Agreement
Preparation, 3.1

2.13 Loan .16 Mistakes
cancelled? identified?

Customer Onboarding Officer

2.7 Check
passed?

Back Office (BO) Officer

9 (24)

Sensitivity: Internal
New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description
Version V.1.0
Date: 4/14/2023

watu

Process description

Process flow and main RACI for parties to clearly indicate who will be responsible (R), accountable (A),
consulted (C) and informed (I) in regard to a task.

The role abbreviations in the RACI matrix are used as follows: Customer Onboarding Officer (COO),
Customer (C), Back Office Officer (BO).

Step Description COO BO
Phase 1: Loan The process continues after completing the step 1.3 of the
Eligibility previous phase.
Assessment, 1.15
2.1 Nairobi location? Watu offers additional services (Watu driving school or Watu | RA

Shule), currently only in Nairobi. If the Dealership is in Nairobi

location, continue to step 2.2.

If the Dealership is outside Nairobi, continue to step 2.4.
2.2 Has driver's Inquire if the Customer has a valid driver's license. RA
license? If the Customer does not have a valid driver's license,

continue to step 2.3

If the Customer has a valid driver's license, continue to step

2A
2.3 Offer Watu Shule | Ifthe Customer doesn't have a valid driver's license, explain RA
services the possible repercussions and benefits of obtaining a

driver's license. Offer the Customer the possibility to attend

Watu Shule and prepare for the theoretical exam to obtain a

driver's license.
2.4 Check system for Check the system for notifications to see if the BO has RA Cc
BO notifications completed the CRB check. The BO should be able to

complete their check within 15 minutes. When you see that

there is a response, go to step 2.12.

If there is no answer within 15 minutes, contact the BO to the

number: +254 799324249

During the waiting time, answer any Customer inquiries.
2.5 Conduct CRB This process starts running after completing the step 1.3 of RA
check the previous phase. The Back Office (BO) officer conducts

the Customer credit balance check.
2.6 Check system The BO officer check the data entered in the system by COO RA
information with the data in the scanned copies of the documents.
2.7 Check passed? The BO officer evaluates data based on predefined criteria. RA

Depending if the criteria is met or not, the loan might be

Cancelled, Rejected or Approved.
2.8 Cancel the loan The BO cancels the loan and sends a Cancelation notice. RA
2.9 Missing of The BO Approves or Rejects the loan depending if the RA
incorrect info? information is complete and accurate.

10 (24)

Sensitivity: Internal
watu

New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description

Version V.1.0
Date: 4/14/2023

Step Description coo | Cc BO
2.10 Reject the loan If there is missing information or the provided information in RA
and ask to make the system doesn't match with the scanned copies, the BO
corrections officer Rejects the loan and asks the COO to make
corrections in the onboarding system.
2.11 Approve for If the information is complete and accurate, the BO officer RA
further processing Approves the loan for further processing.
2.12 BO approval? Check the response from the BO. If itis a Cancelation or RA
Rejection, continue to step 2.13. Ifitis an Approval, continue
to step 2.16.
2.13 Loan cancelled? If the loan is Cancelled, continue to step 2.14. If the loan is R Cc
Rejected due to missing or incorrect information, continue to
step 2.15.
2.14 Explain rejection | The reason for cancelation will be provided in the details. RA Cc
reason to Customer Typically, it will be done if specific criteria are not met, for
example, the Borrower has defaulted ona previous loan.
Explain the Cancellation reason to the Customer. If there is
no reason provided, contact the BO for details to the
number; +254 799324242
2.15 Make necessary If the loan is rejected due to incomplete or inaccurate RA Cc
corrections and information, the COO makes the necessary corrections and
resubmit resubmit the loan application to BO for approval. The COO
consults the BO, if necessary.
2.16 Mistakes After receiving the BO approval, the COO double checks all RA
identified? documents. If the COO notices any mistakes that were
previously missed, they continue to step 2.17. If all is correct,
they continue to Phase 3, step 3.1.
2.17 Inform the BO If the COO notices a mistake after receiving the BO approval, | RA
about the mistake they must inform the BO officer about the mistake.
2.18 Advise on the The BO officer evaluates the nature of the mistake and Cl RA
way forward based advised the COO as to the next steps. The loan may be
on mistake type Cancelled with a request to restart the process or Approved
for further processing.
Phase 3: Loan The process continues with Phase 3, Loan Agreement
Agreement Preparation, step 3.1.
Preparation, 3.1

2.4 Loan Agreement Preparation

During the third phase of the process, the Customer Onboarding Officer enters the necessary
information for loan agreement preparation in the onboarding system. The BO officer will check the
information to ensure it is complete and accurate as well as conduct due diligence checks. At this stage
the loan application can still be cancelled by the BO if the information is incomplete, the requirements
for issuing a loan are not met or the case seems suspicious and might be a potential fraud case.

Sensitivity: Internal

11 (24)
New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description
Version V.1.0

wd tu Date: 4/14/2023

New Customer Onboarding

3. Loan Agreement Preparation

Phase 2: CRB
Check, 2.16

Customer Onboarding Officer

Parallel flow

Phase 4: Asset
Release, 4.1
3.10 Initial
eck passed
.
oO
&
a
oO
2 .12 Referees
~~ confirmed?
oO
&
ia
oO
A
e)
Q
ao
12 (24)

Sensitivity: Internal
watu

Process description

New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description
Version V.1.0

Date: 4/14/2023

Process flow and main RACI for parties to clearly indicate who will be resoonsible (R), accountable (A),
consulted (C) and informed (I) in regard to a task.

The role abbreviations in the RACI matrix are used as follows: Customer Onboarding Officer (COO),
Customer (C), Back Office Officer (BO).

Step Description coo | Cc BO
Phase 2: CRB Check, The process continues after completing the step 2.16 of the
2.16 previous phase.
3.1 Advise the After receiving the approval from the BO, the COO advises A RI
Customer to make a the Customer to make a down payment for the Asset. The
down payment payment should be made to PayBill no. 682684. Provide
support to the Customer if they are unsure how to make the
payment.
3.2 Enter info about The COO enters the information about the Borrower in the RA Cc
Borrower. Upload onboarding system and uploads the soft copies, including:
documents e Enter Borrowers address,
e Enter Borrower's email (optional),
e = Enter District of operations,
e Upload Borrower's photo taken at the Dealership on the
day of issuing the loan,
e Enter KRA issued PIN number and upload a scanned
copy of the document,
e Enter Referee names, phone numbers and relationship
type with the Borrower.
e Upload a copy of the Borrower's driver's license
(optional).
The instruction for this step is available here.
3.3 Enter info about The COO enters the information about the Guarantor in the RA Cc
Guarantor. Upload onboarding system and uploads the soft copies, including:
docs. e  Guarantor's name, phone number and address,
e Relationship with the Borrower.
e Upload Guarantor's photo taken at the Dealership on the
day of issuing the loan.
The instruction for this step is available here.
3.4 Enter information The COO enters the information about the Asset in the RA Cc
about the Asset onboarding system, including:
e Dealership (assigned to branches)
e Promotion and discount profile (based on the down
payment amount)
e Select the asste type, make and model.
The instruction for this step is available here.
13 (24)

Sensitivity: Internal
watu

New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description
Version V.1.0
Date: 4/14/2023

Step Description coo | Cc BO
3.5 Enter info about The COO enters the information about the loan terms in the RA Cc
the loan terms. Upload | onboarcing system:
documents e The orice, interest rate and loan processing fee. These
are predetermined by the promotion.
e Calculate the loanterm based onthe calculator availavle
in Onboarding System. Enter the loan term in months.
e Select a "Yes" or "No" for application for Driving school.
If"Yes" is selected, the fee for the school willbe added
to the loan agreement.
e Enter the down payment method. If the down payment
is made in cash - upload a copy of payment receipt. If
the down paymentis made by Mpesafrom a number that
does not belong to the Borrower - upload the
transaction number. If the number from which the
payment is made is the Borrower's number, the system
will find it automatically.
e Enter information about NTSA account — if the
registration message is or isn't received or if the account
exists.
The instruction for this step is available here.
3.6 Send to BO for Approve the information to be sent to the BO for check. RA
check
3.7 Take photos of the | Take photos of the Asset. The photos should be taken of: RA
Asset e Chassis number
e = Engine number
e License plate number
e = Picture of the whole bike from the side
3.8 Prepare the Prepare the invoice for the Asset sale. The invoice should RA Cl
invoice be issued to the Customer and include the following
information:
e = Asset price (with and without VAT),
e Asset ownership transfer fee,
e Asset manufacturer, model, engine,
e Asset chassis and registration number.
e Sales Electronic Transfer Receipt (ETR).
The invoice must be issued to the Customer.
After the invoice has been issued, continue to step 3.16.
3.9 Check system This process starts in parallel after the COO approves the RA
information information for checking during step 3.6. The BO officer
checks the system data against the data in the uploaded
documents.
14 (24)

Sensitivity: Internal
watu

New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description

Version V.1.0
Date: 4/14/2023

Step Description coo | Cc BO
3.10 Initial check If the system check is successful, the process continues RA
passed? with the step 3.11. If the Initial check is not successful, the
process continues with the step 3.13.
3.11 Perform KYC Calls If the initial check is passed, the BO officer will conduct the RA
know your customer (KYC) calls by calling the Borrower, the
Guarantor and the Referees.
3.12 Referees If the KYC is unsuccessful, for example, one or several RA
confirmed? Referees can't be reached, the loan will be rejected and the
process continues with the step 3.13. If the Referees are
confirmed, process continues with the step 3.14.
3.13 Reject of cancel If the provided information is incomplete, inaccurate, if the RA
the loan BO officer can't reach one or several of the referees, or if
the loan issuance criteria are not met, the BO will reject or
cancel the loan.
3.14 Check the down The BO officer checks if the down payment has been made RA
payment and is received.
3.15 Approve the loan The BO officer approves the loan in the system and RA
and generate the generates the loan agreement.
agreement
3.16 BO Approval? The COO checks the system to see if the BO has Approved, | R
Rejected or Cancelled the loan.
If the BO has Approved the loan, the process continues with
step 3.20. If the BO has Rejected or Cancelled the loan, the
process continues with the step 3.17.
3.17 Loan cancelled? The COO checks the BO comments. If the loan has been RA Cc
Cancelled, the process continues with the step 3.18. If the
Loan is has been Rejected, the process continues with the
step 3.19.
3.18 Explain The reason for cancelation will be provided in the details. RA
cancelation reason Typically, it will be done if specific criteria are not met, for
example, the Borrower has defaulted ona previous loan.
Explain the Cancellation reason to the Customer. If there is
no reason provided, contact the BO for details to the
number; +254 799324242
3.19 Correct the If the loan is rejected due to incomplete or inaccurate RA Cc Cc
mistakes or provide information, the COO makes the necessary corrections and
new information resubmit the loan application to BO for approval.
Similarly, if the BO has been unsuccessful in conducting KYC
calls, for example, one or several of the Referees have not
been reached, the COO asks the Customer to provide
different referees, updates the information in the system
and resubmits the loan application to BO for approval.
The COO consults the BO, if necessary.
15 (24)

Sensitivity: Internal
watu

New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description

Version V.1.0
Date: 4/14/2023

Step Description coo | Cc BO
3.20 Referees If the Referees have changed during the loan approval R
changed? process, the process continues with the step 3.21. If the
Referees have not changes, the process continues with
Phase 4, Asset Release, step 4.1
3.21 Prepare and sign If the Referees have changed during the loan approval RA

a clean form. Upload
in OBR

Phase 4: Asset
Release, 4.1

2.4 Asset Release

process, the COO needs to prepare a clean Contact and
Authorization form, sign it together with the Customer and
then upload the new copy to the system.

To fill a form, follow the same instruction that was provided
in the step 1.9 and is available bere.

The process continues with Phase 4, Asset Release, step 4.1

During the last phase of the process, after the loan has been approved for disbursal, the Asset is
released to the Customer.

Sensitivity: Internal

16 (24)
New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description
Version V.1.0

wd tu Date: 4/14/2023

New Customer Onboarding
4. Asset Release
iT -

o

& A

Oo

7)

=)

Oo

Phase 3: Loan
Agreement
Preparation, 3.20,
3.21

8 “see

©

fe)

{>}

c=

xe) 4.6 Fixed

oO

Q

xe]

Cc

@)

© v

a

re)

17)

=)

O

4.17 Data
correct?

o

YL

fe)

fo)

<=

io)

L

ie)

6

Oo

ca

Process description
17 (24)

Sensitivity: Internal
New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description
Version V.1.0
Date: 4/14/2023

watu

Process flow and main RACI for parties to clearly indicate who will be responsible (R), accountable (A),
consulted (C) and informed (I) in regard to a task.

The role abbreviations in the RACI matrix are used as follows: Customer Onboarding Officer (COO),
Customer (C), Back Office Officer (BO).

Step Description COO BO
Phase 3: Loan The process continues after completing the step 3.20 or 3.21
Agreement of the previous phase.
preparation, 3.20,
3.21
4.1 Print generated The COO prints the generated loan documents. The RA
release documents document package includes:

e Loan agreement

e Schedule A
4.2 Sign the The COO explains the content of the loan documents to the RA
documents Borrower and the Guarantor. The COO explains the payment

method. The weekly payment must be sent to the PayBill

no.650880 citing the Client ID as the account number.

The COO and the Borrower both sign the documents.
4.3 Upload the The COO makes a soft copy of the documents, uploads them RA
documents. Confirm | into the onboarding system, and confirms in the system that
they are signed they are signed.
4.4 Assign the case Upon the approval in the previous step, the case has to be RA
to oneself assigned for further processing. The COO reassigns the case

to himself/herself.
4.5 Enter Asset The COO enters Asset details in the onboarding system. The RA
details instruction is available here. The Asset details include:

e §=©Asset make and model

® Colour

e Chassis number

® = Engine number

e ~=Registration number.

The COO uploads the Asset photos taken in step 3.7 of:

e Chassis number

® Engine number

e License plate number

e Picture of the whole bike from the side
4.6 Fixed number The COO checks if the Asset has a fixed (real) number plate RA
plate? or does it have an allocated license plate number.
4.7 Issue an In case the Asset has an allocated plate number but not a RA
indemnity form and fixed license plate, the COO prints out an Indemnity form and
ask the Customer to | asks the Customer to signit. The Indemnity form will be
sign uploaded in the system and added to the Asset release

18 (24)

Sensitivity: Internal
watu

Step

New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description

Description

COO

Version V.1.0
Date: 4/14/2023

4.8 Allocate a
tracker

4.9 Enter insurance
and invoice data.
Upload doc.

4.10 Send to BO for
processing

4.11 Check uploaded
documents

4.12 Correct?

4.13 Reject and ask
to correct mistakes

4.14 Correct errors
and resubmit

4.15 Issue and
upload insurance

Sensitivity: Internal

package. The instruction for the form preparation is available
here.

The COO finds the GPS tracker number and allocates it to the
Asset in the onboarding system. The GPS tracker receipts can
be found in the Google drive, here. The instruction for tracker
allocation can be found here.

The COO enters information that is necessary for issuing an
insurance. Afterwards, the COO enters the information about
the invoice in the system.

The COO generates a delivery note, obtain signatures from
the Borrower.

The COO uploads the remaining loan documents in the
onboarding system. Additional documents can be uploaded
under the section "Others". The full list of documents that
need to be uploaded include:

e Contact and Authorization Form
e §=Loan Agreement

e Schedule A

e Photos of the Asset

e = Indemnity form (if applicable)

e Tracker receipt

e = Delivery note

e = Invoice

The COO approves the documents in the system for BO
review and approval.

The BO officers checks the information in the system and
compares it with the copies of the documents.

If the information is accurate and complete, the process
continues with the step 4.15.

If the information is inaccurate or incomplete, the process
continues with the step 4.13.

If the information is inaccurate or incomplete, the BO officer
rejects the application and requests the COO to correct the
errors.

The COO corrects the errors and resubmits the documents
for BO review and approval. If necessary, the COO can
consult the BO about the necessary corrections. The process
restarts from the step 4.11.

The BO officer issues an insurance for the Asset and uploads
the insurance information in the system. Afterwards, the
application is approved and returned to the COO for Asset
release.

RA

RA

RA

RA

RA

RA

Cl

RA

19 (24)
watu

New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description
Version V.1.0
Date: 4/14/2023

Step Description coo | Cc BO
4.16 Check that the The COO checks if the data on the insurance sticker matches RA
data on insurance the data in the system. The COO should check:
sticker is correct e start and expiry dates,

e registration number

e number of passengers.
4.17 Data correct? If the data is correct, the process continues with step 4.19. RA

If the data is incorrect, the process continues with step 4.18.
4.18 Reject to Back If the data does not match between the insurance sticker and RA
office for correction | the system, the COO rejects the application and asks the BO

to make the necessary corrections.
4.19 Print the If the data is correct, the COO prints out the insurance sticker RA
insurance and add and adds it to the document package.
to the documents
4.20 Give release The COO gives the release documents to the Customer. The RA
documents to the release document package includes the following
Customer documents:

e § Asigned Loan Agreement

e Schedule A

e Indemnity form (if applicable)

e Insurance sticker

e GPS tracker passport

e  ©Delivery note
4.21 Collect the The Customer collects the release documents and picks up RA
Asset the Asset.
4.22 Watu Shule In case the Customer has procured the additional Watu Shule | C RA
included? services, they should continue on to contact the Watu Shule

office to agree on the training start date. This is a separate

process which is not a part of this process description.

The COO consults the Customer about the next steps as

necessary.

20 (24)

Sensitivity: Internal
New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description

watu

3 RACI matrix

Version V.1.0

Date: 4/14/2023

To clearly indicate who will be responsible (R), accountable (A), consulted (C) and informed (I) in
regards to a task inside the service delivery, Watu is using what commonly is referred to as a RACI

Matrix.

The role abbreviations in the RACI matrix are used as follows: Customer Onboarding Officer (COO),

Customer (C), Back Office Officer (BO).

Activity Coo | C BO
Phase 1: Loan Eligibility Assessment
Check if the Asset is pre-tracked and contact the Watu technician in case it is | RA
not and the tracker needs to be installed
Check that the minimum requirements are met and ask KYC questions RA Cc
If the requirements are not met, reject the loan, explain and advise on how to RA |
address the issues
Ensure the fulfilment of requirements for loan issuance RA
Prepare the documents and request an MPesa statement RA Cc
Enter data in the onboarding system and check eligibility RA Cl
Explain the document content to the Customer and obtain the signatures RA |
Scan the documents and IDs, and add then to the onboarding system RA |
Approve the application for CRB processing RA |
Phase 2: CRB Check
Offer Watu Shule services for locations where these service is available RA
Conduct the CRB check, validate system information for completeness and Cc RA
accuracy, and evaluate loan based on loan issuance criteria
Approve the loan application for further processing | RA
Cancel the loan if the loan issuing criteria are not met | RA
Request corrections for identified errors | RA
Explain the loan cancellation reasons to Customer RA | Cc
Correct the errors identified by the BO RA | Cc
Inform the BO about any mistakes identified after phase approval RA |
Evaluate and advise on the way forward based on mistake type Cl RA
Phase 3: Loan Agreement Preparation
Advise and assist the Customer to make a down payment AC RI
Enter information in the onboarding system about the Borrower, Guarantor, RA Cc
Asset and Loan terms. Upload the supporting documents.

2] (24)

Sensitivity: Internal
New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description

watu

Version V.1.0

Date: 4/14/2023

Activity Coo | C BO
Take and upload photos of the Asset RA |
Prepare the invoice and upload it in the onboarding system RA Cl
Check system information against the scanned document copies | RA
Perform know your customer (KYC) Calls | RA
Reject or cancel the loan based on the criteria and information accuracy | RA
Check that the down payment has been made and is received Cc RA
Approve the loan and generate the agreement RA
Explain the loan cancelation reasons RA | Cc
Correct the mistakes or provide accurate/missing information RA Cc Cc
If the Referees have changed during the KYC call process, prepare, sign and RA | |
upload a clean form.
Phase 4: Asset Release
Print the generated loan documents and ensure they are properly signed RA |
Sign the loan documents RA R
Upload the signed documents in the onboarding system RA
Enter Asset details in the onboarding system RA
Issue and ask the Customer to sign an indemnity form in case the Asset doesn't | RA
have a fixed license plate
Signing the Indemnity form RA R
Allocate a GPS tracker information in the onboarding system RA
Upload the signed documents in the onboarding system RA
Send the application to BO for processing RA |
Check system information against the uploaded documents | RA
Reject the application and ask to correct identified mistakes | RA
Correct the errors and resubmit the application RA Cl
Issue and upload the Asset insurance RA
Check that the data on insurance sticker matches the system data RA
Request the BO for correction, if any errors are identified RA
Print the insurance and add the insurance sticker to the documents RA
Give the Asset release documents to the Customer RA |
Collect the Asset RA
Visit Watu Shule office to start classes (if applicable) Cc RA

22 (24)

Sensitivity: Internal
New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description

watu

Version V.1.0
Date: 4/14/2023

4 Process key performance indicators & metrics

New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process KPls and SLAs are defined in the table below. These
metrics are measured based onset periods and reported to Watu's Management. The metrics shall be

reviewed on quarterly basis.

Description SLA KPI
Turnaround time (TAT) for one onboarding case <2h

Loan repayment rate during first 4 weeks 100%
Loan repayment rate during the loan servicing period >85%

% of Customers that can answer the questions asked
during the First call process:

e The Customer knows the names of Guarantor, Referees,
NOK and Stage chairmen,

e The Customer knows the weekly payment amount,

e The Customer knows the repayment date,

e The Customer knows the Paybill number,

e The Customer confirms that they signed a contract,

e The Customer received a copy of the contract.

Customer Satisfaction rate

5 Related documents

95-100% of Customer can
answer/have a positive
answer to all questions

4.95 out of S

e Google drive - Google drive where tracker receipts are stored for pre-tracked assets
e ©Workinstructions - for ease of access, the links to the specific work instructions are also added in each of the

process steps.

Sensitivity: Internal

23 (24)
watu

New Customer Onboarding in Dealerships process description
Version V.1.0
Date: 4/14/2023

6 Terms and abbreviation

Abbr. Term Explanation

Assets Assets as part of this Process Description are Mobility Assets,
specifically, motorcycles (locally referred to as boda-boda or piki-piki)
and three-wheelers (locally referred to as Tuk-tuks)

BO Back-Office Watu department that validates Customer and loan information and
approves, rejects or cancels the loans.

Customer Also referenced to as "Borrower" in other documents. The Customer is
the private person who has entered in a loan agreement with Watu,
borrowing funds for an Asset purchase.

Coo Customer Onboarding | An assigned Dealership employee who processes documents,

Officer conducts due diligence checks, and enters Customer and loan
information in the Watu onboarding system on Watu's behalf.

Dealership Dealerships are Supplier entities where Watu Customers can purchase
their assets. Watu will collaborate with specific dealerships, based on
their asset sales.

KPI Key performance A metric that is used to help manage a service, process, plan, project
indicator or other activity.

RACI Responsibility A model used to help define roles and responsibilities. RACI stands for
assignment matrix responsible, accountable, consulted and informed.

SLA Service Level An agreement between Watu and a Customer or between different

Sensitivity: Internal

Agreement

Watu

Watu organizational units. A service level agreement describes the
service, service level targets, and specifies the responsibilities of
engaged parties.

The term used to describe Watu organization as a whole, including all
and any of Watu owned legal entities engaged in delivering services to
Customers.

24 (24)
