Frequently Asked Simu Questions

What is Watu Simu?: Watu Simu provides affordable and flexible financing solutions for various smartphones to the Kenyan market.
What devices do Watu Simu finance?: Watu Simu finances a select range of Samsung Galaxy smartphones. The devices have a warranty period of 24 months.
How can I get a phone through Watu Simu?:


To qualify for phone financing, you need to have the following:
An original National ID
No active loans with Watu
Be at least 18 years old
An active mobile money transaction line
Next of kin contact details (the contact must be available/online for verification)
A minimum down payment amount for the selected device

What is the onboarding process?:
The onboarding process takes approximately 20 minutes, and involves the following steps:

Visit any store where Watu Simu is available.
Select any Samsung Galaxy smartphone supported by Watu.
Get a pre-approval on your application.
Make your down payment.
Wait for the verification process to be completed (5-10 minutes).
Once verified, the phone is activated, and you can leave with your new device!

What smartphones are available for financing?
The following phones are available for financing through Watu Simu:

Samsung Galaxy A04e
Samsung Galaxy A05
Samsung Galaxy A05s
Samsung Galaxy A06
Samsung Galaxy A06
Samsung Galaxy A15
Samsung Galaxy A16

What is Watu Simu's Pay Bill number for weekly payments?
Pay Bill number: 650880

Account number: Borrower’s National ID number.

Why is my phone locked?
If your weekly payment was not made on time as per the loan agreement, the phone will be locked.

To unlock your phone, please make an immediate payment to the following Pay Bill number: 650880.

My phone is locked, but I have made my payments on time. What do I do?
If the device is not due for payment but has been locked, it means that it has been away from an active internet connection or the network for an extended period of time.

For further assistance, contact the Watu Simu Customer Care team: 0800 722 245.

My phone is damaged and/or has stopped working. What can I do?
For any phone service related queries, please reach out to the Watu Simu Customer Care team: 0800 722 245 The team will direct you to the nearest authorised service centre where you can be assisted for service/maintenance of the phone.
My phone is lost or stolen. What do I do?
Kindly contact Customer Care and inform them about the stolen/lost device. Ensure you also obtain an abstract with the IMEI of the device included from your nearest police station and share that with the Customer Care.

Samsung Care+
If you have purchased the Samsung Galaxy A13, A23, or A33, your phone has been registered for a one time accidental front screen repair.

In the event you need to use this service, please call Customer Care on 0800 722 245 In order to redeem this benefit, you will be required to pay a small repair fee at an authorised service centre.
How do I check my loan balance?
To check your loan balance with Watu, dial *876# and follow the instructions. 

Please note that standard SMS/call rates charged by your mobile service provider may apply. 

You can get information on the account status at any time of the day and night. This service is accessible through the phone number that was registered in our system during the loan application.

Customers can also reach out to our Customer Care line on 0790 000 999/0709 739 000. We offer dedicated customer service support from 6am to 10pm daily, including weekends. 

What does the total value of my loan include?
The loan is made up of the retail price of the asset and the value added services. The value added services includes fees for the GPS tracker, log book transfer, comprehensive insurance policy, customer service and a 24/7 emergency response team. This information can be found summarised on the first page of your loan agreement.

What are the requirements for one to get financing from Watu?
To qualify for a loan from Watu, one is required to have the following:

An original ID (borrower and one guarantor)
KRA PIN certificate
Two referees (aged 18 years and above)
1 guarantor (aged 20 years and above)
A minimum down payment for selected asset
A Safaricom phone number that is registered with M-Pesa and has been in the use for the last 6 months

Ready to get started? Ride away with your own boda boda or tuk tuk today!

Watu is one of the leading asset financing companies in Kenya, providing boda boda and tuk tuk loans to thousands of aspiring business owners every day!

With a minimum down payment and flexible weekly payment plans, you can become a proud boda boda or tuktuk owner within 2 hours! We offer flexible payment terms of up to 24 months, and your loan comes with GPS tracking services. In addition, Watu works with over 400 authorised dealers across Kenya so that you can ride the two-wheeler of your choice! Choose any boda boda or tuk tuk model from Ampersand, ARC Ride, Bajaj, Haojin, Honda, Jincheng, Lifan, Piaggio, Skygo and TVS.

Checklist
To qualify for a loan, you need to have:
Original National ID (borrower and one guarantor)
KRA PIN Certificate
A minimum down payment for the vehicle of your choice
One guarantor (20-65 years old)
Two referees
A Safaricom phone number that is registered for M-Pesa and has been in use for the last 6 months
