GPS Tracker Replacement
Process

Watu Process Description

Publication date: Jul 18, 2024

FA WW PAA AWWA
Table of Contents

VT OVOPVIOW. occ ecccccccceceecesctecceneeaecseseneeeeeseseceneeaecaeseeeeeeeaesaesaeseaceaesaeaeeeaesaesaeeeeeeaesecanssaecaeseeseeeeseeceeneeaeeaeeeeeeeeeaeeaeeateeeetaeees 3
1.7 PUPPOSE AN GOAL. ccc ccecessces ses seesesesssasssessesssassisssssssassussstessassssusestisinsessississssassussissnsasasssisentissssenssessesesesesissesassseees 3
V2 SCOPE. cece ccececcenesescsesesesescseeceeseenseecenscessusscnessacseecscececseenseecensseusnsasueacicseecicececseecseecenseensnsceueseaeieecieieecseeeseecenseesuseetsseneeseeieees 3
1.3 Main INPUtS ANd OUTPUTS... ccc cece csnetessstesesssesescsussessssssessesssesessssesessesessssinssesssnssssssnsssessnsssssssisesssissssisssessteeseeene 4
1.4 Roles and RESPONSIDINTICS occ cesses sstesessesssesssessesssassiesessssssssssssesssasssissessssssesssestecsssssssissesssissiseessaesnaseeess 4
1.5 SYSteEMS ANd TEMPlAteS 0c ccc cccccsscesssestesesssesssssessesssesssessssssssassssssssssassunssesisassesssessssesassssisscsassissnssesassssansesseecsensseees 5
2 Process LifeCycle.......ccccccscsssessssssesssessssssees ons)
2.1 Phase 1: Identification ANd TrOUDIESNOOTING. cece css sstestesesssessessessestssssiesiessessasesssesssassussesssanssssesitecsstseeiseesses 6
2.2 Phase 2: Location Assignment and Client EnGageMent.....cccccceccccccs ce seestes ssnsestesssssesiescsssaiesssessssnsseesesesses 7
2.3 Phase 3: Check, Process and Release Vehicle... ccc cccccecscsssescensssecsessecsesesescsescsnsescenssensnsesasesecaessecececeuenseseanees 8
3 RACI Matrix... ccc ccccccceceeeneceeneeceeeeneeeeeeeeeeaeeeeeeeeeseecceeeeeeeseeeeseeeseeeceeeeeeeseaeeeceeesesceseeeesceaeeceeeeseaceteeeseeeeiecieeeeeeeaeees 9
4 Process Key Performance Indicators & MetriCS.......c.ccccccccscsssssssssssssssssesssssesssssesssssessssseessessssesassessesessesassesessesasensens 10
5 Related DOCUMENIS.......c.ccccccceecseseseseeeeeecaceeaeaceseseseeeeeescaeseaesaeaeaeaeeeeeeeeseeeeecaeaeaeaeceeaeadeeeeeesieeeeeecaeaeaeeeseeeeaeeeeeeeceeeataes 10
6 Terms and Abbreviations... cece cccceecseeeesceseeeteeeeeaeeaeeeeeeeeeaeeeeceeeesecaeceeseeceaeeeceeeeesceaeeeeseseeeeaeeeeseaaeeeeseeeaeaeceeeseeeaeas 10

7 Version History

GPS Tracker Replacement Process

watu Version V.1.0

Date: Jul 18, 2024

1 Overview

Watu (hereinafter Watu or Company) is committed to conducting business with the highest levels of integrity. Watu
employees are therefore expected to conduct business exercising the utmost level of professionalism and
compliance with the Company policies and national laws. To support this commitment, the Company has
developed a set of processes to ensure employees know how to carry out their activities to ensure good
communication and collaboration between different business units and entities, overall regulatory compliance, as
well as compliance with Company's policies.

This Document defines and regulates the GPS Tracker Replacement process within Watu.
This process is intended for all Watu employees involved in the GPS Tracker Replacement process.

The process uses “roles” to explain the involvement of various parties. Each role is described in the section Roles
and Responsibilities. As the Country teams are different, the role can be assigned to different positions that will
carry out the said responsibilities in the particular location.

1.1 Purpose and Goal

The purpose of the GPS Tracker Replacement Process is to ensure the continuous functionality of GPS trackers by
systematically replacing offline units, maintaining operational integrity, professionalism, and regulatory compliance.
It fosters communication, collaboration, and reliability across business units, enhancing customer satisfaction and
optimising asset management.

The goal of the GPS Tracker Replacement process is to;

Ensure all GPS trackers are online and operational.

Minimise downtime by promptly replacing offline trackers.

Optimise asset management through effective tracking.

Enhance customer satisfaction by maintaining reliable tracking services.

Foster continuous improvement through regular review and refinement of procedures.

1.2 Scope

This document describes only high-level principles and the procedure of the GPS Tracker Replacement process.
More detailed information about the process can be found in the work instructions or other documents specified in
the Related Documents by Process Owner and Process Manager respectively.

The GPS Tracker Replacement Process applies to all mobility assets financed by Watu, as well as Company assets
fitted with GPS trackers, ensuring comprehensive coverage and effectiveness in maintaining the functionality of
GPS trackers. It encompasses the identification, replacement, and confirmation stages.

GPS Tracker Replacement process does not cover the following situations :

e Customer Non-Cooperation: Instances where Customers refuse to engage in the replacement process, do
not respond to communication, or deny access to their vehicles.

e Supply Chain Issues: Delays or shortages in obtaining replacement trackers or necessary components,
affecting the ability to perform timely replacements.

e Escalation Required: Cases that need to be escalated to higher management, legal departments, or other
internal stakeholders due to complexity or severity (Offline with legal status).

e Systemic or Connectivity Failures: Broader issues affecting the tracking system as a whole, such as server
outages or widespread software bugs that impact multiple trackers simultaneously.

Page 3 of 11
Sensitivity: Internal
watu

GPS Tracker Replacement Process
Version V.1.0
Date: Jul 18, 2024

1.3. Main Inputs and Outputs

The below table lists inputs and outputs of the GPS Tracker Replacement Process.

INPUT

PROCESS OUTPUT

Customer Onboarding Process

Monitoring, Evaluation, and
Assessment of Current Trackers

1.3.1 Input

Procurement Process

GPS Tracker Replacement

e Customer Onboarding Process — during Customer onboarding for mobility assets, their asset tracker is
activated and added to the system for asset tracking. The asset is tracked only during the loan servicing

period.

e Monitoring, Evaluation, and Assessment of Current Trackers - involves continuously tracking and analysing
GPS tracker performance, leading to a replacement process when issues like signal loss or new
technological advancements are identified.

1.3.2 Output

e Procurement Policy - sourcing of GPS trackers for replacement to enhance asset tracking efficiency.

1.4 Roles and Responsibilities

The following roles are involved in the process execution:

Role

Supervisor (GS)GPS Manager (GM)

Role purpose

Ensure departmental alignment through effective monitoring of offline trackers and overseeing
task assignments and replacement processes

Authorities (A)

Assign a GPS officer to conduct troubleshooting tasks
Assign a calling officer for Customer engagement.

Responsibilities (R)

Identify and download offline trackers report

Upload new offline trackers from the Installation list to the Replacement list

Assign location for the last recorded online signals of offline trackers

Prepare weekly route plans for mobile technicians based on the offline trackers under
Replacement list.

Role Assignment

Role

Head of GPS Tracking, GPS Manager, GPS Supervisor

GPS Administrative Officer (AO)

Role purpose

Maintenance and troubleshooting of offline trackers

Authorities (A)

Verify technician reports match system details

Responsibilities (R)

Troubleshoot all offline trackers

Analyse the success of commands

Retrieve technician reports for processing on the tracking module

Confirm with technicians upon GPS tracker replacement for data processing

Role Assignment

Role

GPS Back officer

GPS Customer Care Officer (CC)

Role purpose

Customer engagement

Authorities (A)

Offer fuel waivers to resistant Customers

Responsibilities (R)

Make calls and send SMS notifications to Customers with offline trackers.

Record communication with Customers in the Tracking module.

Include contact information for the assigned mobile technician in the notifications.

Post a list of successfully contacted Customers in a designated communication channel

Role Assignment

Sensitivity: Internal

GPS Calling Officer, Customer Care

Page 4 of 11
Role

watu

GPS Technician

GPS Tracker Replacement Process

Version V.1.0
Date: Jul 18, 2024

Role purpose

Ensure customer support, check-ups, replacements, escalation

Authorities (A)

Replace or repair tracker as needed

Responsibilities (R)

Make follow-up calls with Customers assigned for tracker replacement

Conduct check-ups or replacements based on standard diagnostic procedures
Submit reports on replacements or check-ups through the ticketing platform.

Role Assignment

Role

GPS Technicians

Process Owner

Role purpose

Ensures the GPS Tracker Replacement process is Fit for Purpose

Authorities (A)

To ensure proper change management process is followed for suggested GPS Tracker

Replacement Process changes

To approve or reject suggested GPS Tracker Replacement Process changes

Responsibilities (R)

To review all suggested GPS Tracker Replacement Process changes

Design change management and continual service improvement (CSI) of the process and

metrics

Role Assignment

Role

Head of GPS Tracking

Process Manager

Role purpose

To ensure proper follow-through and the operational management of the GPS Tracker

Replacement process

Authorities (A)

Conduct GPS Tracker Replacement Process review
To suggest changes for GPS Tracker Replacement Process improvement

Responsibilities (R)

Plan and coordinate all activities related to GPS Tracker Replacement Process implementation,
execution, communication, monitoring, and reporting.
Suggest process improvements and communicate changes with all involved stakeholders

Role Assignment

GPS Manager

1.5 Systems and Templates

The below table lists the systems and templates used in the GPS Tracker Replacement Process.

ID Direct reference Details Location Personal Data
Processing
S1 Mifos Watu loan management system | Allin Velia data centre Customer and
used for handling loans during (Frankfurt, Germany); Employee Name, Last
the loan servicing period. except, NG, TZ, SL- in Telia name, personal ID,
The |inks to the system are the data centre (Vilnius, personal contact
same, only the County code is Lithuania) details, asset details
adjusted.
S2 DRC - GPS WOX Tracked vehicle location GPS Different data centres in Asset details - plate
KE-GPS_WOX data Germany & Finland number and chassis
NG - GPS WOxX number; Employee
SL-GPS WOX e-mail address
TZ - GPS WOX
UG - GPS WOX
S3 Google Cloud Data Warehouse Google Cloud - Dedicated
Platform Belgium
S4 Troubleshooting WATU offline GPS trackers Google Cloud Asset details - plate
(Commands) troubleshooting worksheet number and chassis
Worksheet number; Employee
e-mail address
S4 Tracking Module Available under the Watu loan Allin Velia data centre Customer and
(Comments)Section | management system (Mifos) (Frankfurt, Germany); Employee Name, Last
and used to update responses except, NG, TZ, SL- in Telia name, personal ID,
after contacting customers data centre (Vilnius, personal contact
Lithuania) details, asset details

Sensitivity: Internal

Page 5 of 11

GPS Tracker Replacement Process

watu Version V.1.0

Date: Jul 18, 2024

2 Process Lifecycle

The GPS Tracker Replacement Process ensures the functionality of GPS units through systematic identification of
offline trackers, troubleshooting, and replacements. It encompasses assigning roles, analysing command success,
Customer engagement, replacements, and confirming reconnections.

This process is structured into three key phases:

e |dentification and Troubleshooting,
e Location Assignment and Customer Engagement,
e Check-up, Process and Release of vehicles.

Given the diversity of country teams, roles may vary, such as customer care agents assuming calling officer
responsibilities in some regions. Throughout the process, it is vital to ensure that any changes concerning offline
tracker communication are promptly updated in the Tracking module comments section.

2. Location
Assignment and
Client Engagement

3. Check,Process and
Release Vehicle

1. Identification and

Troubleshooting

2.1 Phase 1: Identification and Troubleshooting

In this phase, the GPS Supervisor (GS) identifies offline trackers from the installation list to ensure all non-functional
units are pinpointed. The GS then downloads daily reports of these offline trackers and uploads them for
troubleshooting on the troubleshooting (Commands) worksheet. Concurrently, a GPS Administrative Officer is
assigned to troubleshoot these trackers by executing commands such as IMEI/APN Server/IP Address
adjustments, recorded in the worksheet. Within 12 hours, the AO assesses the success of these commands by
comparing the updated offline list with real-time online status reports generated from Kenya - GPSWOx, Uganda -
GPSWOxX, Tanzania - GPSWOx, DRC - GPSWOx, Sierra Leone - GPSWOx, Nigeria - GPSWOx.

Throughout this process, the officer logs any trackers that fail to respond, updating their status daily on the tracking
module to monitor progress and ensure timely resolution.

GPS Tracker Replacement Process

1. Identification and Troubleshooting

Super isor

aPS Officer

G

2.1.1 Process description

Process flow and main RACI for parties to clearly indicate who will be responsible (R), accountable (A), consulted
(C) and informed (I) in regard to a task.

The role abbreviations in the RACI matrix are used as follows: GPS Supervisor (GS), GPS Administrative Officer
(AO}, GPS Customer Care Officer (CC), GPS Technician (GT).

Page 6 of 11
Sensitivity: Internal
watu

GPS Tracker Replacement Process
Version V.1.0

Date: Jul 18, 2024

Step Description GS | AO | CC | GT
1.1 Identify offline trackers The GPS Manager/Supervisor identifies offline trackers from the RA
from installation list installation list in the tracking module.
1.2 Upload daily offline The GS proceeds to download the offline trackers report on a daily RA
trackers report for basis and uploads it to the e.g., for Kenya troubleshooting
troubleshooting (Commands) worksheet.
1.3 Assign a GPS officer Additionally,the GS assigns an AO to troubleshoot the offline trackers. RA | |
1.4 Troubleshoot all new The AO troubleshoots all new offline trackers by sending commands RA
offline trackers (IMEI/APN Server/IP Address) using e.g. for Kenya (troubleshooting
1.5 Analyse success of The AO analyses the success of the commands within 12 hours. This RA
commands within 12 hours | is completed by comparing the new offline list via online status of

report generated from (Kenya - GPSWOX, Uganda - GPSWOx,

Tanzania- GPSWOX, DRC - GPSWOxX, Sierra Leone- GPSWOX, Nigeria -

GPSWOX) on real time.
1.6 Daily check for trackers | The AO logs non-responsive offline trackers on the tracking module | | RA
that fail to respond and repeats this daily to monitor their status.

2.2 Phase 2: Location Assignment and Client Engagement

In this phase, the focus is on assigning the last known location and locating the nearest accessible area of
operation for offline trackers from the failed list, while engaging with Customers to ensure smooth operations. It
begins with transferring these trackers to the replacement tab, ensuring careful exclusion of any with legal issues.

The locations of these trackers are pinpointed using (Kenya - GPSWOX, Uganda - GPSWOX, Tanzania - GPSWOx,
DRC - GPSWOX, Sierra Leone - GPSWOX, Nigeria - GPSWOX) coordinates, and GPS technicians receive weekly route
plans to optimise replacement activities. Customer engagement strategies include initiatives like offering fuel
waivers to incentivize asset review. Detailed records of all interactions are maintained in the tracking module, and
updates regarding successful Customer contacts are promptly communicated via email or Google Chat.

GPS Tracker Replacement Process

2. Location Assignment and Client Engagement

Po] Identificati
' and H
: Troubleshooting, }

aPS Manager/ Supervisor

G

Y

3.Check, Proces i

and Release

APS Calling Officer

S

2.2.1 Process description

Process flow and main RACI for parties to clearly indicate who will be responsible (R), accountable (A), consulted
(C) and informed (I) in regard to a task.

Page 7 of 11
Sensitivity: Internal
watu

GPS Tracker Replacement Process

Version V.1.0

Date: Jul 18, 2024

The role abbreviations in the RACI matrix are used as follows: GPS Supervisor (GS), GPS Administrative Officer
(AO}, GPS Customer Care Officer (CC), GPS Technician (GT).

Step Description GS | AO | CC | GT
2.1 Move failed list to The GPS Manager/Supervisor moves the failed list to the replacernent | RA
replacement tab, excluding | tab on the tracking module excluding those with legal statuses.
those with legal status
2.2 Assign last location of | Once the failed list is moved to the replacement tab, the GS assigns | RA
trackers the offline trackers to their last known locations by checking the last
location where the tracker connected to the server using (Kenya -
GPSWOX, Uganda - GPSWOX, Tanzania - GPSWOX, DRC - GPSWOX,
Sierra Leone - GPSWOX, Nigeria - GPSWOX) coordinates.
2.3 Pull the nearest Upon assigning the last location,the GS pulls the nearest location of | RA
accessible area of the trackers.
operation
2.4 Prepare a weekly route | The GS then prepares a weekly route plan for the GPS technicians. RA
plan for GPS technicians
2.5 Assign the failed list Additionally, the GS assigns the failed list and the route plan to a calling | RA
and route plan toa calling | officer
officer.
2.6 Share the list with GPS | The CC shares the list with the GPS technicians to schedule RA | |
techs to schedule replacements.
replacements
2.7 Contact Client via The CC contacts the Customer via SMS/Call and may offer a fuel RA
SMS/Call and offer a fuel waiver if the Customer is resistant to bring their asset for review.
waiver if resistant
2.8 Post and update a list The CC posts and updates a list of successfully contacted Customers | | RA ||
of successfully contacted via email/Google chat.
Clients All communication with the Customer has to be recorded in the
Tracking module comments section for each country.

2.3 Phase 3: Check, Process and Release Vehicle

During this phase, GPS technicians adhere to assigned route plans to meet Customers, conducting vehicle
inspections to determine if tracker replacements are required. Upon completing replacements, technicians report to
HQ for system verification to ensure trackers are online. After confirming reconnection, vehicles are promptly

released to customers.

GPS Tracker Replacement Process
3.Check,Pracess and Release Vehicle
H 2.Location i

De : Assignment and
35 Hien i End
ee) a

Bic
5
fh

L

ou

oI

is)

a

fa)

2.3.1 Process description

Process flow and main RACI for parties to clearly indicate who will be responsible (R), accountable (A), consulted
(C) and informed (I) in regard to a task.

Sensitivity: Internal

Page 8 of 11

watu

GPS Tracker Replacement Process
Version V.1.0

Date: Jul 18, 2024

The role abbreviations in the RACI matrix are used as follows: GPS Supervisor (GS), GPS Administrative Officer
(AO}, GPS Customer Care Officer (CC), GPS Technician (GT).

Step Description GS | AO | CC | GT
3.1 Follow route plan and The GPS technician receives and follows the assigned route plan to RA
meet with Clients meet up with Customers
3.2 Perform check up on The GT performs check-ups on the vehicle and if satisfied they RA
vehicle and offer resolution proceed to do GPS tracker replacements on offline trackers based

on standard procedures.
3.3 Report status to HQ Upon replacement, GT submits reports to HQ detailing (Vehicle | | RA
through Job Card details like Plate, Tr IMEI) replacements or check-ups through the

ticketing platform (Job card ticket).
3.4 Retrieve report and review | The AO retrieves the technician reports from the ticketing platform RA
if details exist in the system (Job card ticket) and reviews if the details exist in the system.
3.5 Details Exist? If the details do not exist, the process loops back to step 3.2. RA

However, if the details exist in the system, the process proceeds

with step 3.6.
3.6 Confirm reconnection of The AO verifies the reconnection of offline trackers in the system, RA
offline trackers and notify processes the received data, and informs the technicians about the
technicians successful re-establishment of communication with the offline

trackers.
3.7 Reconfirm offline tracker The GPS technician confirms the offline tracker connection is active | | RA
connection and release before releasing the vehicle to the Customer, concluding the
vehicle process.

3 RACI Matrix

To clearly indicate who will be responsible (R}, accountable (A), consulted (C) and informed (I) in regards to a task
inside the service delivery, Watu is using what commonly is referred to as a RACI Matrix.

The role abbreviations in the RACI matrix are used as follows: GPS/Supervisor (GS), GPS Administrative Officer
(AO}, GPS Customer Care Officer (CC), GPS Technician (GT).

Phase 1: Identification and Troubleshooting

Sensitivity: Internal

Activity GS AO CC ] GT
1.1 Identify offline trackers from installation list RA
1.2 Upload daily offline trackers report for troubleshooting RA
1.3 Assign a GPS officer RA | |
1.4 Troubleshoot all new offline trackers RA
1.5 Analyse success of commands within 12 hours RA
1.6 Daily check for trackers that fail to respond RA
Phase 2: Location Assignment and Client Engagement
Activity GS AO CC ] GT
2.1 Move failed list to replacement tab, excluding those with legal status RA
2.2 Assign last location of trackers RA
2.3 Pull the nearest accessible area of operation RA
2.4 Prepare a weekly route plan for GPS technicians RA
2.5 Assign the failed list and route plan to a calling officer. RA |
2.6 Share the list with GPS techs to schedule replacements RA | |
2.7 Contact Customer via SMS/Call and_offer a fuel waiver if resistant RA
2.8 Post and update a list of successfully contacted Customers RA | |
Phase 3: Check,Process and Release Vehicle
Activity GS AO CC ] GT
3.1 Follow route plan and meet with Customers RA
3.2 Perform check up on vehicle/boda and offer resolution RA
3.3 Report status to HQ through Job Card | RA
Page 9 of 11

watu

GPS Tracker Replacement Process
Version V.1.0

Date: Jul 18, 2024

Phase 1: Identification and Troubleshooting

Activity GS AO CC ] GT
3.4 Retrieve techs. report and review if details exist in the system RA

3.5 Details Exist? RA

3.6 Confirm reconnection of offline trackers and notify technicians RA |
3.7 Reconfirm offline tracker connection and release vehicle/Boda ] ] RA

4 Process Key Performance Indicators & Metrics

The GPS Tracker Replacement Process KPIs are defined in the table below, measured based on set periods, and

reported to Top Management.

KPI/SLA Description

KPI/SLA Measurement

Offline tracker Replacement time

Action on 100% of all new offline within a period of 3 weeks after the last connection.

New offline conversion rate

70% Replacement of all successful Customer engagement.

5 Related Documents

Commercial and Lending Policy

Procurement Policy

Troubleshooting (Commands) worksheet.

GPS Ke: Command offline vehicles:

GPS Wox

6 Terms and Abbreviations

Abbr. Term

Explanation

Customer

The customer of a service provider is a person or a group who defines and agrees the
service level targets

Cellular Connection

GPS trackers use cellular networks (GSM, LTE, etc.) to transmit the location data
collected from the satellites to a central server or monitoring system. This requires the
GPS tracker to have a SIM card and cellular connectivity similar to a mobile phone.

Data Transmission

Connectivity ensures that the data collected by the GPS tracker is transmitted in
real-time or at scheduled intervals to a central monitoring system or server. This data
includes not only location but also speed, direction, and other sensor data if available
like exposure to sunlight.

GPS Tr GPS trackers

Electronic device that helps you know the exact location of something or someone. In
essence, a GPS tracker helps you know the location of things and people in real-time,
giving you peace of mind and helping you manage assets more effectively.

KPI Key performance
indicator

A metric that is used to help manage a service, process, plan, project or other activity.

Offline Tracker

A GPS tracker installed on an asset that has not sent a consistent signal to the GPS
Wox server for 14 consecutive days.

RACI Responsibility
assignment matrix

A model used to help define roles and responsibilities. RACI stands for responsible,
accountable, consulted and informed.

Sensitivity: Internal

Page 10 of 11

watu

Abbr. Term

GPS Tracker Replacement Process
Version V.1.0
Date: Jul 18, 2024

Explanation

Redundancy and

Advanced GPS trackers/ Connectivity providers may have multiple communication

Failover options, such as switching between different cellular networks or using Wi-Fi where
available to ensure continuous data transmission even if one network fails. E.g Service
offered by OV in Uganda.

Service A means of delivering value to customers by facilitating outcomes customers want to

achieve without the ownership of specific costs and risks.

Satellite Connection

GPS trackers receive signals from a network of satellites orbiting the Earth. These
signals provide the tracker with precise location information by triangulating the
tracker’s position relative to multiple satellites.

SLA Service Level An agreement between Watu and a Customer or between different Watu

Agreement organisational units. A service level agreement describes the service, service level
targets, and specifies the responsibilities of engaged parties.

Stakeholder All people who have an interest in an organisation, project, service etc. Stakeholders
may be interested in the activities, targets, resources, or deliverables. Stakeholders
may include customers, partners, employees, shareholders, owners, etc.

Watu The term used to describe Watu organisation as a whole, including all and any of Watu

7 Version History

owned legal entities engaged in delivering services to Customers.

Process documentation must be created, approved and reviewed in accordance with the Documents and Records

Management Process.

Version Date

Status: Main Changes Changed by

1.0

Document Created Lynn Nyaguthii Kamama

1.0

Sensitivity: Internal

Document approved Lynn Nyaguthii Kamama

Page 11 of 11
