

Foreword
Purpose and Target Groups
Collections Department
Our Mission
Our Values
Our Responsibilities
Department Structure
Employee Levels
Roles and Responsibilities
Streams
The Collections Process
Process at PQO Stage
Process at Last Call Stage
Delinquency Management Techniques
Work tools: Portfolio Structure, Systems, Scripts
Portfolio Definition
Portfolio Management
Customer Archetypes & Segmentation
The Systems We Use
Quality Control, Scripts & Call flow
Employee Targets and KPls
Department HR Policies

Employee Code of Conduct

Attendance & Leave




Karibu to the Watu Collections! On behalf of your colleagues, we welcome you and wish you lasting success.

At Watu, we believe that each employee directly contributes to the growth and success of the Company and we
hope that you will take pride in being a member of the Collections department.

We believe that professional relationships are easier when all employees are aware of the culture and values of
the organization. All employees should become familiar with the contents of this document, for it will answer
many questions about working in the Collections department and help to understand our vision for the future of
our department and the forthcoming possibilities.

Collections manual was created to describe and harmonize the expectations of our employees and outline the
policies, processes, operational procedures as well as benefits available to Collections employees, recently hires
and company officers on transfer or promotion to new responsibilities within the Collections Department.

We hope that your experience here will be rewarding, enjoyable and challenging.

watu Purpose item Target Groups

We expect that Collections manual will help you to incorporate key department information into your day-to-
day job performance, striving to apply Watu values and meet our expectations in everything you do.

Target Groups/Audience

Manual has been developed both as an aid for induction of new Collection staff members to their roles,
responsibilities, and work environment and as a reference document for everyone working in the Collections
department:

“Experienced or recently hired Interns and Portfolio Quality Officers;
“+ Experienced or recently appointed Supervisors and Managers;
“+ Experienced or recently appointed Senior Officers;

«+ Any other staff of Watu who would like to better understand the operations and processes of Collections
department.

Scope and Organization

The introductory section of this manual provides brief overview of the Collections department, highlighting our
history, mission, values and general objectives.

Later sections explain department structure, job descriptions, workflows, collection processes, performance
monitoring and work tools currently in use by our department.

The remainder of the manual will help to familiarize you with the policies, privileges, benefits and responsibilities
of working in Watu Collections. Please understand that this manual can only highlight and summarize our
Company’ s policies and procedures. Please talk to your supervisor or Human Resources department for more
detailed information.

In Watu, just like everywhere else, circumstances are constantly changing. As a result, we may have to revise,
rescind, or supplement contents of this manual from time to time. The policies used by Watu can change at any
time, for any reason, without advance notice. If that happens, you will be informed by your supervisor or via

other applicable internal communication channels.

watu Collections

Watu Collections department primarily operates as a business call center with strong internal reporting and
quality control functions.

Collections department was established in 2016 - as soon as Watu onboarded its first Asset Finance customers.
Initially we had just a single Collections agent - a Portfolio Quality Officer.

Now - 5 years after our humble beginnings - Collections department has evolved immensely, not only by the
scale of the business or by the rapidly growing number of people working at Watu, but also by the structure and
efficiency of the whole collections process. We have invested a lot of effort into development our teams and
process sub-streams, creating new ideas, agendas, KPls and processes to constantly improve and develop our
Collection strategy. Department has grown substantially and will continue to grow as we strive to provide Watu
the best possible business results and increase company profit with hard, but also smart and diligent work.

This document serves the purpose of explaining how internal Collection agendas, structure, policies and strategy
relate to you and your work. We hope that you will play an important role in taking Watu Collections to the next

level of success.

watu Mission |

Watu believes that everyone deserves the opportunity to become an entrepreneur and achieve his or her goals.
We see a bright and prosperous future for Africa and want to do our part in making it a reality.

Our company’s mission is to help people help themselves. We support entrepreneurs who
believe in their own ability to fulfill their dreams and the needs of their families and community.

We Empower Entrepreneurs by providing the right tools needed to change lives for the better.

Collections department plays a pivotal role in supporting this mission.

Most of our customers are dreamers who make their first step towards financial independence by taking on
Watu loan with the hope of becoming asset owners. However, with time, a myriad of personal and environmental
factors come into play, affecting our customers’ ability or willingness to repay their loans as per their contractual
agreements.

As employees of the Collections department, we are empowered to become our customer’ s cheerleaders:
listening, encouraging, advising, and providing solutions to personal setbacks that may affect the end goal of
completing their loan.

We maintain personal connections and build trust with our customers through consistent communication over
phone calls and text messages with the aim of being constant and active reminders that they must successfully

finish the journey they started with Watu.

watu
our Values are applied behaviors that we expect all our employees to display in their daily interactions with
customers and colleagues.

As the Collections department, we share and celebrate Watu values: we want to move in the same direction and
build a strong team that stands on common grounds!

We want to reward and promote behaviors that support our values to ensure that everything we do is bringing
us closer to achieving our mission.

Customer focus - whether engaging internally or externally, we strive to provide world-class support and

service. We build our processes to help our people grow, minimizing paperwork and meaningless routine tasks.

Respect - Be it your team member, manager, customer or external vendor, we believe in respectful
communication. There will be situations when we disagree (and we encourage a healthy debate!) but by no
means will we tolerate disrespectful attitudes.

Empowerment - We strive to empower our customers (by providing them the right tools), our employees

(by offering them growth and development) and the community (by creating opportunities). We want you to
empower each other every day through regular feedback and support.
watu Ownership - We strive to hire the best people to work on an incredible product, and we want to empower

them to make their own decisions. We trust our employees, but with trust comes responsibility. We want
everyone to treat Watu as their own company and only make decisions that would benefit us all.

Integrity - We are disrupting the industry, going BIG and questioning the norm, and we can only do that if

we can trust each other. That could only be achieved if every single person is acting with unquestionable integrity.

~Possible

watu Responsibilities

Watu recognizes that effective and efficient Collections department is a major factor in enhancing timely and
cost-effective recovery of due and overdue accounts. We manage an important selection of Watu business
processes that form an integral and vital part of our customers’ journey and credit cycle.

WORD OF MOUTH EVALUATION DEBT COLLECTION LOAN REPAID
REFERRALS VERIFICATION CUSTOMER CARE

SOCIAL MEDIA SIGNING CONTRACT RECOVERY

EVENTS ETC. GPS TRACKER OTHER PROCESSES

Collections department generates returns for Watu by maintaining quality of issued loans and converting
potential loss into income stream. Collection processes help to maintain customers and release funds for further

lending. We also support development of good money habits and payment culture among customers.


Debt collection should be viewed as an essential part of the customer journey within Watu. It is the primary
method used to manage payment delinquency and ensure that loans are not defaulted on and consequently
transferred to Recovery, which is not only a more expensive process to the company, but also traumatic
experience for our customers and damaging for the company image.

Collections department is primarily based in Watu head office in Kenya, but currently also supports Watu

business operations in Uganda, Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Tanzania.

watu

Department Bructure |

Collections is one of the largest departments of Watu, therefore clear roles, responsibilities and reporting lines

are critical for efficient and uninterrupted operations.

Watu Collections department has seven employee levels, as shown in the graph below.

watu Roles and Responsibilities |

Job Roles

The following definitions form a broad representation of some of the current job descriptions for employees of
the Collections department. However, job responsibilities may change at any time during your employment.
From time to time, any employee may be asked to work on special projects or to assist with other work necessary
or important to the successful operations of the department or Watu as a whole.

In some cases, the operational needs of Watu may require change of an employee’ s regular workday and/or
workweek hours. Your cooperation and assistance in performing additional work or working a different schedule
is appreciated and expected. The Company reserves the right, at any time, with or without notice, to alter or
change job responsibilities, reassign or transfer job positions, or assign additional job responsibilities.

The PQO intern and evening team officers are at Level 1 of the department’ s hierarchy. Ideally, PQO interns are
tasked with supporting the department by being the first point of contact immediately after customer receives
a new asset. Their duty is to reach out to customers and clarify information, verify/update contact details and
explain the expected repayment terms according to the contract agreement, all this while they learn, develop,
and broaden their collection technique in preparation for handling a full portfolio as their internship progresses.

It is crucial that the interns are keen to develop personal connections with their new customers, encourage a
habit of timely repayment as well as identify and report any problematic cases/ suspected fraudulent activity in
their blossoming portfolios.

The PQO’s mandate is management of payment delinquency, promotion of a positive payment culture amongst
customers within their portfolio and making sure that customers do not default on loans, consequently leading
to recovery process and/or the loss of eligibility for future financial aid from Watu. The role is critical for ensuring
successful completion of each loan and requires a high level of commitment to relentless negotiation, persuasion
as well as a mind for problem solving to work with customers and resolve their overdue debts & collect scheduled
payments.

The PQO serves as the voice and ears of the business, an actively present representative of Watu for as long as

the customer’s loan remains active. PQOs are therefore expected to hand-hold each customer, safeguarding

watu their interest and that of the business by ensuring that the end goal of completing the loan is achieved, to the
content of both parties.

The SPQO and LCO's are at Level 3 of the department’s hierarchical structure and are primarily expected to
perform all the duties of a PQO. Although not yet full-fledged supervisors, they act as mentors for their less
experienced colleagues. SPQO and LCO's are expected to maintain peak performance of their own portfolio as
well as support PQOs in achieving their collections targets by handling difficult customers with their advanced
collection expertise.

They are responsible for assisting supervisors with a variety of managerial duties and act as apprentices in
preparation for future promotions to supervisor position.

Watu Collections department is “powered” by the combined efforts of a very large staff of Portfolio Quality
Officers. Therefore, it is essential to have Team Supervisors, who work closely with PQOs to communicate
company goals and induce peak performance in their team. Team Supervisor is responsible for overall
management of PQOs including, but not limited to: assessing PQO performance, motivating, coaching,
counseling, shift scheduling & balancing and being available to answer questions or provide any assistance that
the team may require.

Supervisors are an important link between management and PQOs, because they are directly in charge of their
team members and are responsible for ensuring high productivity and performance while consciously monitoring
the PQO’s well-being within professional limits.

The Senior Supervisor role is at Level 5 of the department’s operational hierarchy: these are high-ranking team
leaders, who not only perform all the primary duties of a Supervisor, but are also tasked with secondary functions
that reinforce smooth operation of the department in focus areas such as performance management, work force
management, training, and portfolio monitoring.

The Operations Supervisor is a manager whose focus is aimed towards implementation and streamlining of

policies and procedures set to ensure smooth and efficient operations of processes within the Collections

watu department. This role is responsible for constant evaluation and reinforcement of defined employee guidelines
and practices related to performance and employee conduct.

The Operations Supervisor will assist in developing initiatives that will improve and further develop Supervisor’s
skills and expertise with the aim of ensuring that Collections department’s standard operating procedures are up
to date with the industry’s best practices.

Under the supervision of the Head of Collections, the Deputy Head of Collections is required to actively
contribute to and participate in everyday management of the entire Collections department. The Deputy HoD is
expected to work closely with Supervisors and Senior Supervisors, offering guidance and mentoring on effective
team & performance management.

This role will undertake multiple improvement projects to support the HOD in further development of
department’s leadership framework. For example: develop platforms to improve communication and staff
engagement, cultivate internal reward and appraisal programs, strengthen performance reporting, lead
development of training plans, staff recruitment & effective management platforms to support achievement of
the department’s goals and Watu operational targets.

The Head of Collections (HOD) is a senior manager responsible for comprehensive management and effective
leadership of the entire department. The HOD ensures that department’s functions remain aligned to Watu
goals and to achievement of collection targets.

The HOD is responsible for development, analysis and implementation of concepts and policies aimed at
maximizing collections, staff output and department’s productivity and efficiency. The HoD will monitor and
interpret data, devise short-, mid- and long-term strategies and plans to address the department’s current
challenges and prepare for the ever-changing future needs.

The HOD wields the ultimate decision-making authority regarding formulation and signing off on all

intradepartmental policies.|

Some of the predefined teams with their specific objectives and workflows currently deployed by the Watu
Collections department are described below.

Legal status When status iassigned

Stream description: Monitors all active loans and consistently reaches out to customers to
ensure that customers follow their payment schedule and repay their loans
as is required.

Main functions: The main purpose of this stream is to ensure that customers repay their
loans in full, eliminating the need for repossession and therefore allowing
customers to become legitimate owners of the asset at the end of the loan
cycle. PQOs constantly reach out and communicate with customers and their
kin over calls or messages to encourage timely repayment of their loans.

Stream description:

The Last Call team focuses on long-term defaulting customers.

Main functions:

This stream deals with customers who fail to honor acceptable payment
terms as advised by the PQOs. At this stage, the customer either is compelled
to adhere to their payment schedule or is sent over to the repossession
team.

Systems used
(file links, tickets etc...):

“ LC Module;
“+ Repo Sheet

Stream description:

This stream deals with sensitive customers who have shown promise to pay
after speaking to Last Call officers.

Main functions:

The main role of the rescue portfolio is to provide customers with more time
to clear their arrears and get back on track with their payments before
assigning them back to their initial PQO for normal collections process.

Struggling payers are monitored closely and ultimately a decision is made to
either send them back to PQO portfolio or hand over to repossession if there
is no improvement in their payment trends.

Systems used
(file links, tickets etc...):

“ LC Module;
“+ Repo Sheet

watu

Stream description: The repo call stream is responsible for follow-up on the asset after Recovery.

Main functions: The stream reaches out to customers whose assets have been repossessed to
either get the customer to come to the office to bail out their asset or release
Re po the asset for resale. The team liaises with local branches to control movement

of assets after repossession.

call

%

Systems used “* Repo Sheet
(file links, tickets etc...):

Stream description: This stream deals with assets that have been assigned a variety of legal
statuses, following up until the issue is resolved and the user of the assets can
resume payment.

Main functions: This team works on assets placed under legal statuses such as repairs, special
cases, accidents, stolen asset and deceased customer cases etc.

The main goal is providing assistance to the customer through the process
required until the asset (bike) is functional and they can resume repayment of

their loan.
Systems used “ =PQO Module;
(file links, tickets etc...): % ~=Mifos;

% = Teltel;

“¢ Zoiper

watu Tim collections Process

The collections process is a set of coordinated, appropriate and timely activities aimed at receiving pending loan
payments from our customers — within payment deadlines and for the full amount agreed in the contract. It is
carried out on all active loans through a variety of collection methods: phone calls, text messages, customer visits
and even asset recovery in worst-case instances.
watu

The process chart summarizes the internal processes we use for collections & communication with customers
from the moment when they have an overdue payment until loan completion.

After onboarding, each Watu customer is assigned to the loan portfolio a collections officer (PQO). The officer is
tasked with continuous monitoring of all customers in their portfolio and performing follow-up on payment
status until each loan is fully repaid.

In some instances - and for a variety of reasons - customers may be unable or unwilling to make their loan
payments, therefore forcing us to intensify collections efforts by reaching out to the customer’ s rider, guarantor,
referees or next of kin to ensure that loan payments are resumed.

If the repayment habits remain unsatisfactory for a longer period, the customer may be moved from their
assigned loan officer to the Last Call /Rescue portfolio managed by experienced collections officers, who clearly
explain the consequences that may arise from lack of adherence to contractual obligations. Customers in this
portfolio are closely monitored to assist them in developing regular and acceptable payment trends.

If all measures of collection have failed even after numerous attempts of negotiation, the customer is considered

for Repossession. Of course, repo is drastic action of the last resort: our goal is to actively engage each customer
and encourage prompt adherence to the payment schedule until the loan is fully repaid.

Process at BQO Stage |

The collections techniques used by Watu PQOs depends on the customer’s risk class.

Low risk customers:
“= Pay in time;
“* Have zero to low overdue amounts.

Collection methods applied “+ Automated reminders about upcoming payment dates;
“+ Automated late payment notification messages;
“+ Friendly call if a payment deadline is missed.

After the onboarding of a new customer, we make the first call to reiterate loan terms, clearly explain the
expected payment amounts and emphasize the importance of meeting loan payment deadlines.
Retaining customers in this risk category during their entire loan period is a key goal for all Watu Collections

department employees. To help achieve this goal, Watu sends automated reminder text messages a day before

watu scheduled payment due date, another message in the morning and one more - in the afternoon of the actual due
date.

If payment is not received despite the reminders, an automated late payment notification message is sent the
day after the missed due date. The responsible PQO also reaches out to customer immediately after the overdue
status is applied: the first reminder call is brief, friendly and emphasizes the importance of maintaining clean
loan payment record.

In our classification system, low risk customers are customers who routinely adhere to their weekly loan payment
schedule and there is little to no need for any extensive follow-up. Ideally, low risk customers meet their payment
deadlines or have a maximum of one installment in arrears. This category of customers form the majority of our

loan portfolio.

Medium risk customers:
“+ Have missed payments;
“* We have to be hands-on to turn the trend around.

Collection methods applied “+ Automated reminders about upcoming payment dates;

“+ Automated late payment notification messages;

“+ More frequent calls and hands on support;

“+ Reach out to guarantor if customer unavailable for too long.

Medium risk customers have failed to make their weekly loan payments on time for one reason or another and
have accumulated arrears that equate to 2 — 5 payment installments (this limit can be adjusted to account for
external factors such as the current state of the economy; you will be informed by your management in case that
happens).

This category of customers makes up the majority of Watu overdues portfolio and requires an increased level of
engagement from Collections department employees: we use calls, automated messages and personalized
reminder messages from PQOs, frequently educate the medium risk customers on the importance of servicing
their loan and gently prod them to repay any overdue amounts as soon as possible. Each case is analyzed
individually.

We negotiate payments with the customer, but also contact the guarantors and inform them about the current
loan status, if the customer is unreachable. Our focus is on understanding the underlying circumstances that led
to overdue payments and offering feasible solutions or strategies that our customer can employ to reduce their

arrears and once again pay in timely manner.

watu Remember: the OBJECTIVE of our collection activities is to receive the payments AND to sell the benefits of
paying on time in order to foster a positive payment culture among our customers. Be professional and use

language that supports achievement of this objective!

High risk customers:
“Have lots of missed payments;
“+ In-depth analysis and diligent action are required.

Collection methods applied “* = Frequent communication with the customer;

¢* Significant mental preparation for each call;

“Analysis of information provided and agreements required;

“+ Likely have to contact guarantors, referees and other available
contacts.

High risk customers make up a smaller percentage of Watu overdues portfolio compared to the other two risk
categories, however, these customers require use of rigorous and time-consuming collection techniques,
because they have more than six installments in arrears and are very likely to default. (Caution: this limit can be
adjusted to account for external factors such as the current state of the economy; you will be informed by your

management in case that happens).
PQOs use intensified and calculated collection methods when dealing with high risk customers, initiating
frequent, persistent and oftentimes long phone conversations with not only the customer, but also their

guarantors, referees and any other contacts available in their account records.

Typically, PQOs go through these action steps in an attempt to get the customer back on track with loan

payments:

a. Who is the customer - gender, age, status, religious affiliation?

watu

b. What were the original loan conditions?
c. Why did this loan become post-due/overdue/in arrears?

d. What actions were taken previously: review the comments in Portfolio Quality Module!

a. What is the customer’s situation now? Evaluate: is the information provided truthful or questionable?

b. How does the customer use the asset? Where does he/she operate geographically and what kind of
business operations is he/she focusing on?

c. How much income does the customer generate from his/her business operations?
Is it enough to pay for the loan and cover other business expenses?

d. Customer education: Is the customer well aware of the repercussions that may arise from defaulting?

e. Are we negotiating effectively? Reaching unrealistic agreements is pointless!

f. Are we able to make the customer commit to prioritizing Watu loan repayment?

a. What problem is the root cause of the current delinquency?

b. Have we informed the customer's guarantors/close contacts that the customer’s loan is not being repaid as
agreed in the contract?

c. What are the possible solutions? Formulate realistic repayment plan

d. How long will it take (with this newly suggested payment plan) to clear the customer’s arrears?
watu

Securing
payment
commitments

Are we negotiating effectively and reaching realistic agreements?

PQO must specify when, where, how and how much the customer will pay. Consider
psychology: for example, if customer is over-indebted or had a major decrease of
income, will he/she pay to Watu or pay his/her bills to another institution first?

Are we able to make the customer commit to prioritizing Watu loan repayment?

Customer
compliance
with

payment
commitments

Did the customer pay on the agreed-upon date?

Does the customer demonstrate honest desire to repay the loan?

There should be demonstrable consistency throughout the whole active Debt
collection process;

It is not enough to reach an agreement and just depend on the customer’s apparent
goodwill and positive attitude — Collections department staff must proactively follow
up on payment commitments.

Recording
collections
activities

Are collection activities carried out in coordinated manner? To be sure, we shall record
all agreements and relevant comments in Portfolio Quality Module.

Follow up on
the progress

Are we sufficiently aware of customer’s current life situation and do any special legal
statuses apply?

Intensification
of collection
activities

We contact the customer’s guarantors, referees and next of kin if customer is
unreachable;

Use actions appropriate to the overall severity of the case - you should not use the
same approach for a customer who has one installment overdue for one day and a
well-known hard case defaulter;

Intensify collection activities if the loan payment situation deteriorates, but always use
appropriate actions so you can have high success rate and avoid causing unnecessary
damage to good customers.

watu
Process at Bast CallStage —_|

If a high delinquency risk customer continuously fails to honor payment agreements made with his or her PQO,
the customer may eventually be re-assigned to a Last Call/Rescue portfolio handled by very experienced
Collections department employees (known as Last Call and Rescue officers).

Last Call and Rescue officers use all possible measures to get in touch with the customer, negotiate a payment
plan for overdue amounts and explain in no uncertain terms the unpleasant consequences that may arise from
further deviations from the agreed upon payment schedule. The ultimate goal of Last Call and Rescue officers is
to bring the high delinquency risk customer’s payment situation under sufficient control and to ensure that
majority of these customers can be reassigned back to PQO portfolios instead of crossing them over to

repossession.

What happens in the Last Call process stages?

watu

Last Call (LC) Customers are manually submitted to Last Call by supervisors or automatically picked up

by our systems based on a set of delinquency criteria.

Outcome of the Last Call stage:
Customer calls are made for 5 working days before making the final decision:

Customers who meet BTP (back to portfolio) criteria are transferred back to PQO

% %
EO

portfolio;

“+ Customers who do not meet BTP criteria yet, but show good consistency in payments
are transferred to Watu Rescue;

“+ Customers who do not meet BTP criteria are transferred to Watu Repo.

Watu Repo Customers are transferred to Watu Repo from Last Call.

Outcome of the Watu Repo stage:
“+ Customers who meet BTP criteria are transferred back to PQO portfolio;

“+ Customers who do not meet BTP criteria yet, but show good consistency in payments
are transferred to Watu Rescue;

“+ Customers who do not pay or show no consistency in payments are transferred to
Final Recovery.

Watu Rescue Customers are transferred to Watu Rescue from Last Call or Watu Repo.

Outcome of the Watu Rescue stage:

%

“+ Customers who meet BTP criteria are transferred back to PQO portfolio;

%

“+ Customers who do not meet BTP criteria are transferred to List X or Watu Repo.

List X Customers are transferred to List X from Watu Rescue.

Outcome of the List X stage:

%

“+ Customers who meet BTP criteria are transferred back to PQO portfolio;

“+ Customers who do not pay are transferred to Watu Repo.

The Last Call team of the Collections department consists of two sub teams:

watu

1) LCOs: Last Call Officers process customers transferred from the PQO portfolios. They try to reach out and
persuade the delinquent customers to pay a certain lump sum and commit to a favorable repayment plan - if
successful, the customer may be transferred back to the PQO portfolio very soon;

2) Rescue Portfolio: Rescue Officers pick up from where the LC Officers left in terms of agreements made if the
customer displays willingness to pay and promising consistency in their payments, but requires a little more time
to pay than what is acceptable within the Last Call stage of the process.

Which customers are transferred to the Last Call?

We use a set of nine criteria to identify customers with the greatest delinquency risk within PQO portfolios.

Any customer that meets one of the nine criteria at any point in time is automatically transferred to the Last Call
portfolio and can only be returned to the PQO portfolio after getting back on track with loan payments.

Note: Some customers can be manually submitted to the Last Call even if they do not meet the aforementioned
criteria. This option can be used to fast track the rehabilitation or repossession process if a customer displays

extremely poor payment habits or is a suspected fraud.

The criteria for transfer to Last Call are based on some of our key loan performance indicators:

3DP 3 Days Paid: total of payments received during the last 3 days.

DS Day Score: total amount paid divided by payment amount expected
as per agreement (expressed as %) during a defined period.

We typically use 14DS, 28DS and 56DS - repayment score for the last 14/28/56 days.

RP Repayment progress: % of loan amount repaid.

Overdues Total amount of overdue loan payments.

1. Non-paying Customers considering Days in Overdue:

Days in Overdue:

Days in Overdue:

watu

Days in Overdue:

17 - 28 days in Overdue 29 - 43 days in Overdue 44 - 70 days in Overdue
(at least 2 missed instalments) (at least 3 missed instalments) (at least 4 missed instalments)
3DP: <KES 1,000 3DP: <KES 1,000 3DP: < KES 1,000
14Ds: 0% 14Ds: - 14Ds: <70%
28DS: - 28DS: — 28DS: —
Overdues: — Overdues: >KES 7,000 Overdues: > KES 9,000
RP: aaa RP: aaa RP: a
Days in Overdue: [crterons Days in Overdue:
71 - 105 days in Overdue 106 - 140 days in Overdue 141 - 200 days in Overdue
(at least 5 missed instalments)
3DP: <KES 1,000 3DP: < KES 1,000 3DP: < KES 1,000
14Ds: <70% 14Ds: <60% 14Ds: <50%
28Ds: — AND 28Ds: <50% AND 28ps: <50%
Overdues: >KES 18,000 Overdues: >KES 18,000 Overdues: >KES 19,000
RP: — RP: -—- RP: o

2. Non-paying Customers considering Overdue Amount and Repayment Progress scores:

Days in Overdue:

Days in Overdue:

Days in Overdue:

3DP:
14Ds:
28Ds:
Overdues:

RP:

0%

0%

>= KES 15,000

3DP:
14Ds:
56Ds:
Overdues:

RP:

< KES 1,000

<=25%

<= 20%

>= KES 19,000

<30%

3DP:
14Ds:
56Ds:
Overdues:

RP:

< KES 1,000

<=25%

<= 20%

> KES 25,000

<=50%

watu

Returning Customer Back to Portfolio or Forwarding to Repossession

Each customer spends a predefined period in the Last Call / Rescue process. Once the allocated time runs out, a
decision is made either to transfer the customer back to the PQO’s portfolio {if significant improvement is noted
in their payment consistency) or to transfer the customer over to Watu Repossession for further action.

The parameters listed below are used to determine which customers can be transferred back to the PQO
portfolio after 5 days in the Last Call:

aS

0-69% has to be greater than or equal to 60%
70 - 84% has to be greater than or equal to 50%
85 - 100% has to be greater than or equal to 40%

Customers may be transferred to the Rescue portfolio if they have displayed willingness to pay and consistency
in repayments, but still do not meet the criteria necessary for transfer back to the PQO portfolio.

Rescue Officers take over the agreements Last Call Officers made with the customer, but offer the customer
more time to improve the payment situation and closely monitor the progress. Customers who fail to make
consistent payments at this stage can be transferred to Watu Repo.

The parameters listed below are used to determine which customers can be transferred back to the PQO
portfolio from the Rescue portfolio:

0-30% has to be greater than 70% has to be greater than 50%
31-65% has to be greater than 60% has to be greater than 50%
66-100% has to be greater than 50% has to be greater than 40%

If customer fails to attain any of the DS parameters outlined above within three weeks after being transferred to
the Last Call /Rescue portfolio, the customer is then transferred to Watu Repo.

A customer who has 14 DS below 20% and less than KES 1,000 actual payments made in the last 3 days while

assigned to the Rescue portfolio is also transferred to Watu Repo.
Repossession (Watu Repo)

watu

After all normal collection measures and attempts at negotiation have failed, Watu must take appropriate steps

to secure its assets in the most immediate and effective manner: by involving Repo or Repossession (also known
as Recovery).

Watu Repossession department utilizes a variety of methods, including (but not limited to):
“Physical visits;

%

“+ Recovery of funds on site;

%

“* Repossession of the asset (action of last resort).

Post Repossession calls

Initiated once the assets have been repossessed. The customer has 12 days to redeem the asset and continue
with payments, or the asset is listed for sale.

watu
Delinquency Management ia

Delinquency begins as soon as customer misses their payment date, thus changing portfolio payment status from
due to overdue and becoming subject to the active collection process. Watu PQOs are responsible for
communication with our overdue customers, management of delinquency and active reporting of unsatisfactory
repayment behavior in order to mitigate risk.

The long-term health of our business requires that Watu Collections department keeps track of each customer’s
payment situation and puts even considerable investment of time and effort into following up on repayment.
We have to be diligent and believe in our ability to achieve success in negotiations with the customer.
Prematurely deciding (i.e. making assumption) that certain customer’s loan is a total loss can lead to hesitance
and psychological aversion to actually making a call and putting in effort to improve the customer’ s payment
situation while it still can be improved — which can eventually lead to more overdue debt and repossession.
Likewise, placing too much trust in the goodwill of the customer (i.e. not making a follow-up when a promise of
payment is due) can detract from the collections process, show our customers that we don’t really care whether
they pay or not and lead to loss of time and money.

Believe in yourself |] Does this customer laclq Follow up on customer Two outcomes:
basic financial promises completion or repo
Follow the process competence? Suggest good payment There are benefits
f i or consequences
Do what you can Pay attention! habits q
and do it today Explain kindl Repeat to reinforce Help customer
xplain kindly

make the choice

Target delinquency Bforeitbegins |

Addressing the problem before there is a problem or before it becomes a substantial issue often proves to be
one of the most effective strategies available in reducing payment delinquency.

1. Preventive action and timely collections activities may help in managing customers who are just slightly
overdue (for example, missed a payment deadline few days ago).

One of ways to manage delinquency risk is advising the customers to pay up front, instead of waiting for some
imagined time in the near future.

For example: if the customer has 400 KES right now, but promises to accumulate 2000 “by the end of day” and
pay it all then, negotiate that he or she should pay now (400 KES or maybe less) and pay the rest of the promised
amount at the end of day.

The customer should treat loan payments as a priority and demonstrate this by making whatever commitment
he or she is ready to make right now. Also, do not forget to follow up on the promise to pay the remaining

amount later!

watu

2. Pre Payments - advising a customer to pay forward is one of the techniques that may play out for the best
for all involved parties, if the customer experiences difficult times in the future.

This approach could be especially useful with those customers who appear to have a pattern of consistently
being late with their payments. Customers should be reassured that the funds they choose to pay in advance do
not disappear, but are transferred to pay for the upcoming loan instalments.

Each PQO is assigned with managing a specific randomized set of customers - a portfolio that includes a fixed
amount of customers. No two portfolios are the same. Over time, by interacting with the assigned customers
and gaining experience on the job, PQO should be able to distinguish some of their payment patterns and
common behaviors and address them with a sense of personalization.

3. Use of Positive Reinforcement - Positive reinforcement also plays a valuable role in Watu Collections. As
a financial institution, we recognize and reward customers who pay on time by offering them:

“+ Easy access to new loans when they complete repayment of their initial loan;
“* Preferential (lower) interest rates for repeat customers;

“+ Trainings and Customer Education, usually done on applicable skills such as general welfare, road safety
and financial management;

“+ Additional prizes and incentives, such as lotteries.

Customer education can go a long way towards reducing loan default rates.

Watu provides basic finance education before the deal is signed. Onboarding/Sales officers explain concepts like
repayments schedules, weekly instalments and other relevant information included in the customer’s loan
agreement prior to issue of the loan.

However, we understand that some of our customers are just not well educated in Finance and easily forget this
information; sometimes even basic concepts like ‘what a loan is’ may not be very familiar to the customer.
Customer may have misunderstood or not internalized the full implications of loan commitment for the borrower
and the guarantors. In such cases, the PQO will try to fill in customer’s knowledge gap (also to report such cases
to the immediate superior).

Our customers and their guarantors should clearly understand (as a minimum):

+ Full implications of obtaining a loan;
“* How this type of loan works (asset financing);

“+ The repayments schedule with weekly instalments;

“+ The benefits of paying on time;

watu

“¢ The relevant implications of default (during our customer education activities it is important to stress both
the benefits received as a result of punctual payments and the possible repercussions of default, or late

payments such as penalties).

[Penalties OR) Accruals

Currently, the only late payment penalty fee is charged as soon as the loan passes its scheduled maturity date. If
the loan has not been repaid three months after the loan maturity date, the customer is charged a late penalty
fee of 0.75% of the outstanding loan principal amount every week.

Additional charges may apply because of Recovery, Special Case bailouts or Emergency expenses, including false
alarms when customer reports an emergency, but it is proven false. These costs may vary, for example, the usual
charge for a regular asset repossession is 5,000 KES: it is added to the customer’s loan amount when the
customer returns to redeem the asset. Asset can be redeemed (returned to customer after repossession) ona
condition that sufficient repayment commitment is made — the amount may vary, but we typically demand
repayment of at least 50% of accrued overdue amounts to have the asset released back to the customer.

es
ts

Empowering
Entrepreneurs

watu
Meee rtfolio Structure, Systems, Scripts

Fieieepefinition

A portfolio is a pool of financial investments that have been lent out in the form of assets, stocks or cash.

In Watu, a portfolio is a list of active customers who have taken a loan from our company in the form of a
motorbike or tuk tuk.

Each portfolio is managed by a particular PQO. With our current process, the maximum number of customers
simultaneously assigned to a PQO is 500 due to the time and effort required for collection activities.

Portfolios can vary in size and content of every portfolio is somewhat “fluid”, because customers can be added,
or removed once their loan has been repaid, or transferred to the Last Call team if they are delinquent, to be
returned back to portfolio once their payment situation improves and meets certain criteria. However, in the
ideal scenario customers are expected to remain in the same portfolio until completion of their loan, allowing
each PQO to follow payment progress, understand individual customer payment patterns and build rapport with
each customer to influence good payment habits.

Every portfolio eventually contains two groups of customers:

%

«+ Due customers: customers who still have pending loan instalments to be paid in the future before
completion of the loan, but at this particular point in time, all of the scheduled payments have been made i.e.
customer has honoured the terms of our agreement;

“+ Overdue customers: customers who have unpaid weekly instalments past their scheduled settlement date.
PQOs should focus their attention on customers who have not cleared their weekly instalments past their

scheduled settlement date, however, sometimes it is necessary to remind due customers about their next
payment date. This is usually done by sending a series of automatic text messages.

Each portfolio can be accessed and managed through the Portfolio Quality Module (PQM).

watu
Meawelemyianagement |

“Which customers should | follow up first? How should | prioritize customers in my portfolio?”

These are some of the first and most important questions a new Watu PQO will likely ask as they begin on the
job. Managing a whole portfolio of customers is a challenging task and even an experienced officer may
occasionally face doubts about priorities. The goal of this section is to provide more clarity and workable ideas
how to prioritize collection activities for the different customers in the assigned porfolio.

As the PQO gains more experience and knowledge about the assigned portfolio and all the customers it contains,
he or she may design and use their own unique approach to performing payment follow-up - as long as it is in
line with the Collections department policies and expectations. Still, the following insights may be of significant
relevance and help when forming the understanding of portfolio management principles or revising them later
for guidance.

An Example: Four step approach to PQO collection activities

Bl Who are the most sensitive customers?
It is very important to quickly identify the most “sensitive customers. One way to do this is to frequently monitor
performance indicators like 14DS and 28DS (Day Score).

Day Score 14 and 28 values in portfolio are calculated as a ratio between actual payments received and payments
expected as per our agreement with the customer during the period of past 14 and 28 days respectively. These
scores are a useful factor when assessing certain customer’s risk level.

For example: customer with weekly instalments of KES 2,000 is expected to pay KES 4,000 in 14 day period. As a
result, 14DS ratio at 0% would mean that customer paid nothing at all during the last 2 weeks, 14DS at 100%
would mean that we received KES 4,000 as expected and 120% would indicate that customer has either paid in

advance or paid for some overdues.

Similar principle applies to 28DS: the only difference is that 28DS is calculated for the past 28 days.

watu

PQOs should pay a lot of attention to the low Day Score customers as they pose a greater risk of delinquency.
Obviously, this does not mean that you should not call customers with higher Day Score, but those with the
lowest 14DS and 28DS ratios usually should be prioritized.

Bwhat makes a call effective?

A call is more effective if the chances of customer making the payment are relatively high before it even begins.
Customers who miss the payment deadline for a day or a few days (usually) are much more likely to pay when
reminded than those who have accumulated large overdue amounts over time.

There is a direct relationship between the customer’s intention to pay and the probability of recovering the loan
- as the customer’s intention to pay diminishes over time, so does the probability of loan collections.

For this reason, one highly beneficial proactive approach is reminding customers who missed yesterday’s
payment deadline to pay and get off the overdue list, while at the same time encouraging them to make timely
payments in the future. Being proactive helps to mitigate the risk of a single missed payment turning into a
serious default case.

BlHow much do they owe Watu?

The overdue amount is another indicator PQO should use to identify which customers to call first. By prioritizing
high overdue amounts over the smaller ones, we can receive much better returns from our time and money
invested in the collection process.

As an example: customers A and B have equal 14DS and 28DS. However, customer A has KES 200 overdue while
customer B has KES 4,000 overdue. It is rational to contact customer B first and ask for payment before calling
customer A.

Bwhat should be the outcome?

Our goal is to ensure that customer is constantly reminded to pay and pay in timely manner. The more often we
can get in touch with the customer or the other loan parties (like guarantors), the better our chances are of
collecting loan payments from them.

Therefore, PQOs are required to maintain constant communication with all the overdue customers and not just

rely on the customer’s own goodwill to pay.

watu
caus chetypes | amentation

Note: this segmentation is a model that complements the risk-level determination (as described in the Process
at PQO Stage section) or the approaches described in the Portfolio Management section. Not to be confused
with any customer segmentation used outside Collections department.

“+ Not all customers are the same, neither are their reasons for missing payments;

“+ Effective customer segmentation is possible if we correctly identify the primary cause of delinquency and
classify the customer based on attitude, capacity to pay, solvency, external environmental factors etc.;

“+ As the number of days past due increases, collection strategies be adjusted as the level of risk increases and
we learn more about the customer; at certain point focus shifts from retaining the customer to recovering
the loan amount.

Simple collection activities are sufficient. Require feasible alternatives and options.

(Repayment plan or more complex).
Often effective negotiation of new payment

conditions is enough to recover the overdue The most effective solutions involve changing the

amount and maintain the customer. loan conditions: restructuring, refinancing, etc.

Usual reasons: forgot to pay, did not receive the

payment schedule indicating payment dates, or Usually these customers have faced an

asked someone else who did make the payment. unforeseen emergency, are going through a

difficult situation, are victims of an investment

gone bad, or are spending more than they earn.

Is the customer dissatisfied with the quality of Immediate action required.

the asset or services that Watu offers?
Fraudulent customers with bad credit history or

If yes, problems must be resolved ASAP. loan issued due to error in approval process.

If no, immediately develop and implement more It is important to ascertain that the customer is

intensive collection strategy. If the new strategy [If definitely unable to make full repayment.

fails to bring improvement, consider immediate ; ;
Watu must evaluate the cost/benefit of any action

escalation for action.
taken with these customers or risk wasting money
Possible reasons: customer initially received and effort.
erroneous information, disagrees with loan
conditions or payments were made but failed due

to technical or operational errors.

watu

Wem ystems Gauge

Mifos be

Portfolio Quality Module (PQM)

PD ZoiPer

bob

Google Meet

Mifos is Watu’s primary operating system that allows us to have easy
access to all the customer and loan information we need for work.
Collections department later developed a more specialized module to suit
our operational needs. However, we still use Mifos to gain access to the
PQM module.

Collections department relies on the Portfolio Quality Module for
portfolio management tasks. PQM provides access to useful information
about our customers and their loan, for example: customer details like
their name, age, contact details and next of kin details, as well as loan and
asset details like outstanding loan balance, arrears, loan schedule,
previous transactions, asset type, loan documentation etc.

Zoiper is a softphone/online dialer; it allows us to make customer calls via
the internet and provides great deal of operational flexibility. We can
make calls, answer incoming calls, use multiple phone numbers and access
call recordings and call reports through Teltel application.

We use Skype as valuable internal communications channel to provide
employees with important or useful information. Of course, we also use
other forms of communication, such as email and direct calls.

HiBob is our HR operating system and contains all staff information. Watu
employees mostly use HiBob for leave applications as well as company-
wide communication and storage of useful knowledge materials.

Google Meet tool enables us to schedule and hold virtual team meetings
and trainings as Watu has embraced working from home.

Google Sheets is used for interdepartmental communication and issue
escalation. We also rely on Google Sheets to update PQOs on their daily
performance.

Quality Control, Scripts & Call flow

Great customer service is essential for creating a strong brand with a solid business reputation. Our long term

goal is to blend collection with customer service, ensuring that we establish and maintain professional

watu

partnerships with our customers that promote timely payment of loan instalments, supports customer retention
and creates repeat business for Watu.

In support of this goal, we have set up Quality Control (QC) team that provides best practice guidelines for
conducting calls with our customers. The primary task of our QC team is call monitoring and providing actionable
insights for improvement.

Call monitoring provides valuable information that helps us:

“+ Streamline processes to maintain call best practices in line with the industry's standards;
“+ Nurture and develop PQO's negotiation and customer service skills;

“+ Reduce wasteful practices;

“* Understand customer trends and get direct customer feedback (VOC);

“+ Support our management decisions with statistical data.

The Quality Control team performs call audits, provides training and creative programs to develop PQO skills so
we can be efficient at collection and at the same provide reasonable and professional customer service. See

below an example of the typical recommended structure and progression of a collection call:

Use the Portfolio Quality Module to review customer information and previous comments.

What is the customer’s payment history and how much do they owe us now?

2.1 Confirm that you have reached the right person. “Hello! Am | speaking to...?”

2.2 Sound excited and enthusiastic. Build rapport. “Great! How are you today?”

2.3 Introduce yourself. “My nameis...

lam calling you from Watu.”

watu
patentee

3.A1 “Il am calling to thank you for your responsible loan payment habits, however, you
still have overdues of (mention the actual amount) KES.
Is there a reason why you have delayed in making these payments?”

3.A2_ Listen keenly and respond appropriately to the customer’s reasons for non-payment.

3.A3 Create a sense of urgency for the customer and explain the importance’ of
prioritizing loan payments.

Remind the terms of the loan and the benefits of paying on time.

3.A4. Get the customer to promise exact date, time and amount they will pay. In case the
total overdue amount exceeds their weekly instalment, discuss payment plan for the
remaining arrears.

3.B1 “I am calling about your late loan payments of (mention the actual amount) KES.

Why have you delayed in making these payments?”

3.B2_ Listen keenly and respond appropriately to customer’s reasons for non-payment.

3.B3 Educate the customer about the consequences of not paying.

For example:

Lack of loan payments will make it difficult for Watu to finance you in the future.

We may be unable to support you if something unexpected happens or if you get in an
accident.

SAMPLE CALL SCRIPT — CUSTOMER CALLS

[gemma

4.1 You must be mentally prepared to make reasonable demands.

4.2 Always insist on the urgency of making payments now (partial payment is good enough).

4.3 Ask how much the customer currently has and get him or her to agree on paying that
amount immediately after the phone call. If the customer disagrees, get to know why.

4.4 Negotiate with the customer and formulate a plan together on how & when they will pay

the full overdue amount. Get the customer to commit to this plan.

watu

4.55 Get the customer to promise exact date, time and amount they will pay.
In case the total overdue amount exceeds their weekly instalment, discuss payment plan
for the remaining arrears.

5.1 “Do you have any other questions?” — if further assistance is not required.

5.2. “Thank you for your time and for choosing Watu! | will be expecting your payment of (exact

’

amount as agreed) KES by the (date and time you agreed upon). Have a great day

watu
employee | ESI

Job Performance & Review

Collection is a dynamic process with daily improvements and changes depending on external or internal factors.
This requires constant strategy adjustments and improvements of our collections approaches, and all PQOs need
to be aligned with Watu performance goals.

Collections department is very performance-oriented: we give all our employees clear targets to work towards
and offer competitive bonuses as compensation for good effort and results. Our main key performance indicators
(KPIs) are listed below with some general information about the evaluation process. Watu reserves the right to
review and evaluate performance at any time using any appropriate means.

We are committed to helping each and every employee realize his or her full potential. Watu encourages
employees and their supervisors to discuss job performance and goals in an informal, friendly atmosphere on
day-to-day basis. The main areas of performance we measure include, but are not limited to:

Collections The primary KPI of Collections department is revenue generated
(KES received) by the PQO’s collection efforts.

Call Effectiveness | Watu Collections employees mostly reach out to customers through calls. Calls made and
call time are directly proportional to employee’s productivity and they are easy to
measure - just like Collections.

Call Quality Collections department deals with existing customers. Customer experience is a very
important factor of customer retention/repeat business, therefore it is essential that
each PQO maintains high levels of professionalism and adheres to the department
procedures during all customer interactions.

Portfolio Each PQO is entrusted with the responsibility of managing a portfolio of Watu customers
Management and is required to make thorough, authentic and consistent follow-up to all overdue
accounts, ensuring that customers complete their loans on time.

Watu uses a variety of tools to monitor performance, enabling us to make informed and accurate decisions
regarding each employee’s contribution, training needs and promotion opportunities that best fit the strengths
and weaknesses of the employee.

Employees with performance issues may be asked to join a performance improvement plan (PIP, also known as
performance action plan) that will give them an opportunity to improve. PIP may be used to address failures to

meet specific job goals or to amend behavior-related concerns.

watu
Department HiRieltelecman

Employee Code of Coffeen

Standards of Conduct

To ensure orderly business operations and provide the best possible work environment, Watu expects all
employees to follow rules of conduct that will protect the interests and safety of all Watu employees.

The purpose of these rules is not to restrict your rights, but rather to be certain that you understand what
conduct is expected and necessary for pleasant cooperation.

While it is not possible to list all the forms of behavior that are considered unacceptable in the workplace, listed
below are examples of infractions of Employee Code of Conduct that may result in disciplinary action, up to and
including termination of employment (in case of serious breaches or criminal actions).

This list of unacceptable behaviors is not complete; any other types of conduct that threaten security,
personal safety, employee welfare and Watu operations are prohibited:

“ Violation of any policy, practice and/or procedure;
“+ Neglect of job responsibilities;

%* Falsification, misrepresentation or alteration of employment records, employment information, or other
Company records, including lying about sick or personal leave, falsifying reason for a leave of absence or other
data requested by Watu (i.e. the company);

“+ Theft and deliberate or careless damage or destruction of Watu property, or the property of any employee,
customer, or visitor in any manner;

“* Engaging in acts (or threats of acts) of violence or coercion, making threats of violence toward anyone,
intimidating others, fighting, or provoking a fight during working hours, or on Watu property, or when
representing Watu elsewhere;

“+ Engaging in criminal conduct either related or not related to job performance;

“+ Insubordination, including but NOT limited to failure or refusal to obey the lawful orders or instructions of a
supervisor, member of Watu management, or the use of abusive or threatening language toward a supervisor
or member of management;

“+ Working for another employer during normal working hours or without approval from Watu;

«+ Using inappropriate language such as: profane, vulgar, obscene, abusive or insulting language, including
unwelcome name-calling and inappropriate jokes or racial slurs at any time on Watu premises, or when
representing Watu elsewhere;

¢* Immoral conduct or indecency on Watu premises, or when representing Watu elsewhere;

“+ Being away from work for any reason during scheduled working hours without permission to leave;

watu

“+ Violating Watu safety, health and security policies, rules, or procedures; engaging in conduct that creates a
health hazard, including smoking in unauthorized areas;

“+ Committing a fraudulent act or breach of trust under any circumstances;

“+ Engaging in harassment (sexual, racial, religious or other); telling sexist or racist jokes; making racial or ethnic
slurs;

“+ Engaging in discrimination based on race, religion, complexion, gender, national origin or ancestry, physical
or mental disability, medical condition, marital status, registered domestic partner status, age, sexual
orientation or any other basis;

“+ Being under the influence of a controlled substance while at work; use, possession or sale of a controlled
substance in any quantity while on Watu premises or when representing Watu elsewhere, except medications
prescribed by a physician which do not impair work performance;

¢ Solicitations or disruption of any nature on Watu property during scheduled work time.

Anti-harassment Policy

Watu is committed to providing a work environment, which encourages mutual respect, promotes respectful
and congenial relationships between employees and is free of unlawful harassment.

Watu prohibits sexual harassment and harassment based on pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions,
race, religion, complexion (skin color), gender, national origin or ancestry, physical or mental disability, medical
condition, marital status, registered domestic partner status, age, sexual orientation or any other basis protected
by law or ordinance or regulation. Each and every act of such harassment is unlawful.

Watu Anti-harassment policy applies to everyone involved in the operations of Watu (employees and hired
contractors) and prohibits any Watu employee, including supervisors and members of management, to engage
in harassment against employees, vendors, customers and any other parties.

Prohibited harassment includes, but is not limited to the following behavior:

“+ Verbal conduct such as derogatory jokes or comments, slurs or unwanted sexual advances, invitations or
comments;

“+ Visual displays such as derogatory and/or sexually-oriented posters, photography, cartoons, drawings or
gestures;

“+ Physical conduct including assault, unwanted touching, intentionally blocking normal movement or
interfering with work because of sex, race or any other protected basis;

“+ Threats and demands to submit to sexual requests as a condition of continued employment, or to avoid some
other loss and offers of employment benefits in return for sexual favours;

¢* Retaliation for reporting or threatening to report harassment.

If you believe that you have been unlawfully harassed, promptly report the incident to Human Resources
department. You will be asked to provide details of the incident, names of individuals involved and names of any
watu

witnesses. Watu will immediately undertake an effective, thorough and objective investigation of the allegations.
All harassment charges will be promptly investigated and treated confidentially.

Dress Code

Each employee is a representative of Watu in the eyes of the public, therefore you should always report to work
properly groomed and wearing appropriate clothing.

Employees are expected to dress neatly and in a manner consistent with the nature of our business and the type
of work performed. Employees who report to work inappropriately dressed may be requested to clock out, leave
the workplace and return in acceptable attire or properly groomed.

Consult your supervisor if you have questions as to what constitutes appropriate appearance.

Empowering
Entrepreneurs

We take individual responsibility for the neatness of each individual workplace and cooperate to make our
working spaces pleasant and presentable. Clean, distraction free workspaces give us more time to focus and be
productive in our day-to-day activities. Let us make sure we work as a team to keep our offices clean!

Items allowed in the working area:

“* Equipment for work (laptop, headset, mouse);

watu

“* Notepad and pen;
“* One glass for water and one cup for warm drinks;

¢* Food container.

Items not allowed in the working area:

¢* Any food that is outside food container;

“* Bags or any other personal items.

Food storage:

We have provided each employee with a food container; if you have not received one yet please ask your
supervisor or manager.

Bags:

Please hang your bags on the hooks located under your work desk.

Attendance and Time Keeping

Watu employees are expected to report to work as scheduled — on time, well rested and prepared to start work
either in the office or from a remote location like home. Employees are then expected to remain at work for their
entire schedule, except for meal periods, or when required to leave on authorized Watu assignments. Late
arrival, early departure, or other unanticipated and unapproved absences from schedule hours are disruptive
and therefore not condoned.

watu

If you know that you will have to be absent from work or know that you will arrive at work late (or miss some
hours of remote work), call and notify your supervisor at least one hour before the time you are scheduled to
begin work, or as soon as possible in advance of the anticipated tardiness or absence.

Be advised: simply leaving a message or texting your supervisor or another teammate does not constitute
notification to your supervisor. In the event of an emergency, a family member or friend should call on your
behalf. Contact your supervisor each day you are absent from work. In all cases of absence or tardiness, Watu
employees must provide their supervisor with an honest reason or explanation and valid documentation to prove
reason for absence (as required in some cases).

Annual Leave

Collections department employees are entitled to 21 days of paid leave per year after completion of their
probation period. Planned leave requests must be submitted and approved in HiBob (if you are unable to access
HiBob at the moment of filling in the request, you can use email instead).

“+ Employees are responsible for submitting annual leave requests in HiBob at least 10 working days in advance
of a planned leave. However, in emergencies employees may submit a leave request on shorter notice and
the request will be reviewed;

“+ Leave requests will be submitted to the employee’s supervisor (or direct manager) for approval. Supervisor
will review the request and either approve or reject it;

“+ Allemployees must wait for proper approval of leave before proceeding on leave. If necessary, follow up the
approval with your supervisor.

Sick Leave

In line with the Employment Act of Kenya, all Collections department employees who have worked with Watu
for at least 2 months are entitled to 7 days of fully paid sick leave annually. After using up the fully paid sick leave
days, the employee is also entitled to another 7 days of sick leave on half pay within that year.

Sick leave is validated only if the employee provides a certificate of incapacity to work signed by a qualified
medical practitioner.

If an employee is sick and unable to work, he or she should:

“+ Inform his or her immediate supervisor or manager at once!

“ Write an email to sickleave.watuafrica@gmail.com requesting to visit the hospital with at least 1 hour notice

and await approval;

¢ After the visit to hospital, attach the sick note to the email thread and on HiBob.

Kindly remember that using fake documentation will lead to disciplinary action.

All emergency leave and sick leave requests must be submitted in the following format:

Emergency Leave: Sick Leave:

“* Full Name: “¢ Full Name:

“* Position: “* Position:

“* Location: “* Location:

“+ Leave days balance: “+ Time intended to leave work:
“Leave from: “+ Hospital Name:

“Leave until: “* Backup Employee:

“+ Number of days: “* Supervisor/Branch Manager:
“+ Date back in the office: “* Reason/Symptoms:

“+ Leave days balance at the end of the Leave:

“+ Backup employee:

“+ Supervisor/Branch Manager:

“+ Reason for leave:

Internal document Collections manual ver. 1.1 Valid from: 01.09.2021 Page 47 of 50
Electronic document has primacy over printed versions Use the latest document version available

“When you think about a glamorous or rewarding career, becoming
a debt collector probably is not the first thing that comes to mind,
but our department has come a long way to prove that
Collections in Watu can be an enjoyable and rewarding career
path.

We have become more than just debt collectors: we are active
partners in our customers’ success stories.”

“Join us in making a difference, impacting communities in
a meaningful way, and have fun along the way!”

watu
