Watu Credit Headquarters, Lower Hill Road, Upper Hill, P.O Box 15138-00100, Nairobi, Kenya.


VoC: Customer Onboarding Talking Points


1. What is the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO)?


TCO = Retail Price of the asset + Value Added Services (This is computed as Interest Rate to the retail price of the asset)


Main components of TCO: When paying to own a financed assets a customers is paying for;
1. The retail price of the asset at the time of purchase (Listed Price at the dealership)
2. WATU Value Added Services (This is computed as Interest Rate to the retail price of the asset):
   * Safety Gears &  Insurance
   * Customer service and support throughout the duration of the loan via Customer care channels & 24hr Emergency Line.
   * Free storage of assets for customers during emergencies or when facing temporary financial challenges.


2. How do I repay my loan?
WATU Accepts loan repayments via M-pesa Only using our Mpesa paybill number 650880, and customer's ID number as the account number to process payments. Furthermore:
* All payments are scheduled on a weekly basis. 
* Customers can keep track of their weekly repayment amounts and outstanding loan balance by dialling *876#. 


3. What should I do if I have an issue or inquiry?
* Speak to us via our customer care line via 0790999000 or 0709739000.  We offer dedicated customer service support from 6am to 10pm every day, including weekends. 
* Visit our social media platforms; Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter under the name Watu Africa Kenya
* Visit our physical locations (Officers, shops, warehouses a/o dealers)across the country from 8am to 5pm Monday to Friday and 8am to 4pm on Saturday. Our offices remain closed on Sundays and public holidays. 
* Dial USSD code *876# and follow instructions. Once you make your initial request, a personalised PIN will be generated and sent to your phone for future usage. To access this service, customer must;
   * Use the phone number that was registered in WATU systems
   * Have airtime on the specific line in use


4. What does the Insurance policy cover?
Watu provides a comprehensive Insurance policy to its customers, covering assets, passengers, and third-party compensation. However, the rider is not covered by this policy. It's advisable for riders to have a personal private cover for accidents. Insurance covers:
* Motorbikes (2 wheelers) for one year
* Tuk Tuks (3 wheelers) for two years


For both Motorcycles and Tuktuks customers are strongly advised to renew insurance after expiry


In an unfortunate event when our customers a/o riders are involved in an accident, WATU will provide necessary assistance to process the claims as follows:
1. Client obtains Police abstract from Police station and fills claim form at Watu Branch
2. Claim form is sent to Insurer
3. Claim approval is received from the insurer
4. Payment offer signed and logbook transferred to the Insurer
5. Payment received by Watu
6. Loan closed and payout if any sent to client via Mpesa


5. What should I do if my motorbike is stolen or lost?
Speak to us immediately via our emergency line (0719111000). Our emergency line is available 24/7; once you call our staff will guide you through the police reporting and asset recovery process.


6. What happens when my asset is recovered?
For all reported lost asset cases, WATU launches a deliberate asset recovery attempt. Upon asset  recovery, Customers are notified of the asset's location for collection. However, if the asset was declared lost, customers will be advised and supported throughout the insurance claim process if the lost asset has an active Insurance cover.


7. How will Watu help me if I’m struggling with loan repayment?  
Watu allows its customers to temporarily store their assets at our office to prevent arrears accumulation. The loan will be on pause and resume upon asset collection.


8. How can Watu assist me if my asset has a mechanical issue?
WATU has a financing product to support asset repairs (30/70 program) for good paying customers. With this product, customers have to pay 30% of total repair cost and WATU finances 70% of repairs costs, which will be added to the outstanding loan balance. To access this product, customers MUST visit the nearby WATU retail location.


9. Why does Watu Track my assets?
WATU co-owns the asset with the customer throughout the loan repayment period, therefore for security purposes - all WATU assets are tracked. The cost of this service (GPS Tracker & Tracking fees) is included in the Total Cost of Ownership.


Watu also provides a paid recovery service upon the client's request, specifically in cases involving client-rider disagreements. The recovery fee for this exercise is 5,000Kes.


10. How do I obtain my Logbook after finishing loan repayments?
After finishing loan repayments, the Logbook transfer process is initiated by the opening of a TIMS account (via NTSA portal) with support from WATU Customer Care team.


Once the Log book has been transferred, and the Logbook is prepared for collection, it is forwarded to a branch as per the customer's preference. Subsequently, the customer is contacted to arrange for collection. The timeline is dependent on NTSA Processes.


What are the requirements needed for logbook collection?
1. Original  Identification Card (ID)
2. The phone number used during the customer's TIMS registration. (This is used to access to their TIMS account)
________________






For Reference: Summarised Customer Journey


  



Summarised Insurance Process