Commercial Policy
Version V1.0
Date: 2/17/2023 Logo, company name

Description automatically generated 




  





































Commercial Policy














Version V1.0
Approval date: 2/17/2023
Policy Approved by: Watu Holdings (Group level document)
1. Introduction
Watu Credit Limited and other Watu Group Companies (hereinafter Watu or Company) together form a dynamic and fast-growing non-bank finance company that offers asset financing. The Company is built on four core values which are the guiding principles for company policies, employee conduct, behaviour, and tone of voice:
* Customer focus. Watu success goes hand-in-hand with the success of Watu Customers. Watu endeavours to deliver world-class support and service through Customer engagement.
* Empowerment. Watu strives to empower its Customers by providing them with the right tools to improve their lives. 
* Integrity. Watu believes in honest, transparent, fair, and respectful treatment of its Customers and employees.
* Ownership. Watu promotes accountability and willingness to learn from past experiences which is the driving force for continuous improvement culture.
* Respect. Watu promotes mutual respect and maintenance of respectful relationships within and between our teams and with our customers and partners.
2. Purpose and Scope
Watu is committed to ethical business practices. The purpose of Commercial Policy is to describe the guiding principles for Watu business development and management, that should always be:
* Compliant with laws, regulations, and the Company’s policies and procedures
* Accountable and auditable
* Ethical, environmentally, and socially responsible 
The policy covers all Watu existing and new business areas, and is applicable to all Watu permanent employees and hired 3rd party or self-employed contractors working on behalf of Watu.
3. Policy Communication and Review
This Policy communication and implementation falls under the responsibility of the Watu Management Team. As part of a continuous improvement approach, this Policy shall be reviewed and updated once every two years or more often, as per business needs.
4. Policy Statement
   1. Service Offering
Watu offers both long-term and short-term asset financing services.
All additional services are created to support the core business with the aim to improve service delivery, reduce risk, increase Customer value or improve Customer experience. 
   2. Service Localization
Watu aims to standardize service delivery across different geographies to improve efficiency and effectiveness, and offer consistently good Customer experience. Changes to service delivery (localizations) should be limited as much as possible but will be allowed to support the local market needs.
Any changes (localizations) to standard service delivery must be reviewed and approved in accordance with Change Management Process.
   3. New Service Development
New product and service development shall be done in compliance with Service design process and Watu Expansion Strategy.
New products and services are first researched based on the market’s demand. 
All new products and services shall first be tested  through a pilot case study. The pilot case should be preferably tested in a mature market, due to proximity of the key staff, and availability of necessary infrastructure and support. 
All new services and products should be developed considering possibilities for scalability to other markets.
   4. New Market Development
Watu aims to be Africa’s leading financial technology company in asset financing by 2028.
To evaluate a possibility to expand Watu business to new markets, Watu shall conduct high-level research and compare research results with data gathered from partner or market research companies. The research areas should include but are not limited to the following categories:
* current and potential sales, 
* distributor presence, 
* possible market challenges and risks, 
* financial market regulations, 
* legal & tax compliance, 
* customer needs,
* talent pool,
* infrastructure,
* product affordability.
When possible and feasible, to increase the expansion speed and mitigate risks, Watu will aim to engage a strong local partner for entering new markets. 
   5. Environment, Social, Governance (ESG) Considerations
Watu is committed to fair and ethical business practices and aims to help drive local economy by offering sustainable financing. To comply with this goal, long-term (loan period above 12 month), high-value asset loans shall mainly be issued for Customers who plan to use these assets for business purposes. 
Watu will only issue loans for Customers that have reached the legal age of the country of operations and meet the loan issuance requirements, specified in relevant procedures.
Watu will only finance one loan at a time for the Customer. The only exception to this rule is if the Customer has a loan for a low-value, short-term asset (e.g., mobile phone) when a new high-value, long-term asset loan can be issued. In this instance, the issuance of loan is determined based on the current loan repayment history and remaining balance.
Watu does not and shall not discriminate on the basis of race, colour, religion (creed), gender, gender expression, age, national origin (ancestry), disability, marital status, sexual orientation, or military status, in any of its activities or operations.
   6. Tools and Systems
Watu will provide all necessary tools and systems for its employees to deliver Watu services. Employees are only allowed to deliver services using Watu provided systems and tools. Self-developed tools must be verified and approved before they can be used for service delivery. 
As part of Continuous Improvement process, Watu will work to develop and improve its systems to help support business efficiency, effectiveness and transparency.
   7. Contract
All loans shall be issued only after an agreement, that sets out the terms and conditions of the loan, shall be signed between Watu and the Customer.  
The Legal Department has developed and will maintain a standard Loan Agreement and Authorization form that contains loan terms and conditions, and other supporting documents. All loans shall be issued only using the approved standard forms.
Any modifications to the approved standard agreement form shall be developed and approved by the Company’s Legal Department.
   8. Currency
All services shall be provided and loan repayments shall be made in the local currency or major international currency, if it is widely used in a particular market or location.
   9. Insurance
All high-value, long-term loan assets (small and large motorized vehicles) shall be insured for 3rd party damages. When possible, assets will be insured with comprehensive insurance policy to expand insurance coverage.
Insurance will be issued during loan processing from one of Watu partners or Government selected companies. Insurance premium payment will be added to the total loan value.
   10. Payment Methods
Watu does not operate using cash and only accepts electronic payments from the Customers. Electronic payments include bank transfers and mobile money payments.
As an exception, when expanding service delivery to new markets, cash payments may be accepted in cases where there are no reliable systems to collect money electronically.  
   11. Loan Financing Period and Interest Rate
The loan interest rate is determined by the asset type and loan term. Different markets may have different rates as other rate determining factors include local legislation, market conditions, Customer profile, Customer earning potential and risk.
All loan interest rates are set in line with the Consumer Protection regulations.
Loan financing periods and rates are reviewed on annual basis or as per business needs, to ensure continued compliance with laws, regulations, market conditions, and risk.
   12. Loan Repayment
The total loan amount and interest rates are calculated using Watu systems in compliance with rules defined in respective guidelines. Any changes to loan calculation principles only affect new loans. 
All new loans are Reducing balance loans. Loans that were previously issued as Flat rate loans, shall not be affected by the new loan calculation methodology. 
The Customers loan repayment schedule shall be calculated for weekly or monthly instalments, based on the product type. The Customer can decide to make daily, weekly, or monthly payments regardless of the schedule. The total repayment amount shall be fixed and will not change except in case of loan restructuring or when additional fees are added to the loan. 
Watu may charge late payment interest in compliance with contractual obligations and local Consumer Protection regulations. Late payment fees are calculated on outstanding principle amount. Interest is not compounded, meaning late interest payments are accumulated and added to the total Customer debt but are not added to the principal amount that is used in interest calculation.
Watu will reschedule the loan and will not charge additional interest for the time period while asset is in Watu storage, undergoing repairs, or in other circumstances where the Customer has agreed a loan repayment grace period.
   13. Loan Restructuring
Watu will offer loan restructuring to Customers to:
* Adjust the loan term,
* Adjust the loan amount.
All cases for loan restructuring will be evaluated separately in accordance with respective procedures and guidelines.
   14. Loan Rescheduling
Watu will reschedule the Customer loans by delaying the next due payment in cases where:
* The asset shall be in Watu storage,
* The Customer requests rescheduling due to injury or sickness,
* The asset is in the police custody,
* The asset is undergoing repairs,
* Other cases agreed between the Customer and Watu.
   1. Loan Transfer
Watu will transfer an existing loan to another borrower in the following cases:
* Client request. In this case, the Customer shall introduce the potential borrower to Watu. Watu will only transfer the loan to the new borrower in case the new borrower meets all Watu requirements for issuing a new loan.
* Customer death. In case of a death of a customer, Watu will offer to transfer a loan to the next of kin (NOK). The NOK who doesn’t accept the transfer shall be required to sign off a form which will allow Watu to sell the asset in the second-hand market. 
   1. Asset Repairs
Watu shall aim to support its Customers and cover a part or a full asset repair cost. Each case shall be evaluated separately based on the Customer past payment performance. Customers who have arrears or have been known to miss payments, shall be required to contribute a part of repair cost. 
Watu will finance 100% of repair costs only if the Customer has a good repayment history, does not have past or current arrears, and the case has been reviewed and the financing approved by the Customer Service specialist.
In case Watu shall finance a part or a full asset repair cost, the full cost will be added to the loan amount and the loan will be restructured. The Customer contribution shall be deducted from the remaining total loan amount.
   2. Asset Storage
Watu will store Customer assets during the time when they are not able to or can’t use the asset. The loan payments are suspended (loan is rescheduled) for the time during which the asset is in Watu storage. 
   3. Voluntary Asset Return
Customer can voluntarily return the asset to Watu. The Customer can introduce a new possible borrower and request to transfer the loan. In other cases, the asset will be put on sale in second-hand asset market. 
   4. Asset Repossession
If Customer can’t repay the loan, the asset might be repossessed.
Watu aims to avoid asset repossession where possible, working with the Customer to enable them to continue loan repayment.
Asset will be repossessed if the Customer defaults on the loan. The specific rules for asset repossession are described in relevant procedures.
   5. Customer Support
Watu recognizes the value of helping their customers with solving issues, such as theft, accidents, technical issues or any other issues, during the loan servicing period. Where possible and feasible, Watu will establish special services and helplines through which the Customers can receive the necessary support.
   6. Customer Post Repossession Call
Customers will be granted a grace period in accordance with the local legislation, after the asset is repossessed, during which the Customer can reclaim the asset. The rules for asset return to the Customer are described in respective Customer Support procedures and guidelines.
   7. Asset Resale in Second-hand market
The second-hand assets comprise of Watu owned assets that are voluntarily returned by the Customer, repossessed assets for defaulting loans, were the asset was not reclaimed by the original Customer, and repossessed assets for deceased Customers where the loan was not transferred to the next of kin.
Watu employees are not allowed to buy second-hand assets (collateral). 
   8. Customer Refund
Watu will return to the Customer, who had the original loan, the excess made from the second-hand asset sale or receiving the insurance claim, after covering asset cost, interest and other accrued costs as per relevant procedure and guidelines.
   9. Asset Treatment in Case of Customer Death
In case the Customer dies during the loan servicing period, due to natural circumstances such as sickness or old age, or the death is caused by an accident where the leased asset is not involved, Watu shall:
* Offer to transfer the loan to the next of kin who is willing to accept the loan transfer,
* Sell the asset in the second-hand market, if the next of kin is not willing to accept the loan transfer. The old loan will be closed after the asset is sold.
In case if the Customer death is caused by an accident while riding the financed asset and the asset is still serviceable, Watu shall:
* Offer to transfer the loan to the next of kin who is willing to accept the loan transfer.
* In case the next of kin is an immediate relative (parent, sibling, spouse or child), Watu may offer to write off the remaining asset value and give the asset to the next of kin.
Severely damaged assets that are no longer serviceable will be written off.
   10. Asset Write-off
Watu will write off the remaining un-paid asset loan value in cases when:
* The asset has been stolen and not recovered, for the difference between remaining asset value and insurance claim,
* Asset is damaged beyond repair in an accident or vandalism case, for the difference between remaining asset value and insurance claim,
* In case of Customer death if the death was caused by an accident while operating the asset,
* Assets that can’t be recovered or where the recovery cost exceeds the remaining asset value.
The Senior Management shall be consulted in theft cases with suspicious circumstances where the Customer involvement is suspected.
   11. Fraud Cases
Both internal and external fraud is a punishable      crime. All suspected fraud cases will be investigated using internal resources and engaging the law enforcement, when necessary.
Employees who will be suspected to have participated in a fraud case shall be investigated in compliance with HR and/or Internal and External Investigation policies and procedures.
 () {"HashCode":403594638,"Height":841.0,"Width":595.0,"Placement":"Footer","Index":"Primary","Section":1,"Top":0.0,"Left":0.0}