1st Floor, Golden Heights, Chole Road Masaki | | P.O. Box 76536, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania| tanzania@watuafrica.co.tz






                                  
WATU CREDIT (TANZANIA) LIMITED 






CUSTOMER SERVICE COMPLAINTS HANDLING POLICY AND PROCESS
















________________


1. INTRODUCTION
   1. Company Overview 
Watu Credit (Tanzania) Limited (“Watu” or “the Company”) is a limited liability company incorporated in the Republic of Tanzania with registration number 141790560, with its registered address on 1st Floor, Golden Heights, Plot 1826/17, Chole Road 38, Masaki, PO Box 76536 Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. In Tanzania, Watu  is licensed by the Bank of Tanzania  (BoT) to offer microfinance services under Tier 2. Through issuing loans, Watu offers asset finance for purchasing commercial motorbikes, three-wheelers, and smartphones.
Watu is an Asset FinTech revolutionising financial inclusion across Africa with its presence in  7 regional countries. The company is building an ecosystem for unbanked and underserved individuals by providing access to tools that enhance digital literacy, economic growth, quality of life and opportunity. Watu actively promotes financial literacy & independence, the adoption of digital payments and increased regulatory & safety compliances.
Our key values are Customer Focus, Empowerment, Integrity and Ownership.
   2. Objective
In the current competitive environment for financial service providers, excellent and satisfactory customer care service is the most important tool for sustained business growth.  Despite the Company’s efforts to understand customers and fulfil their needs, there is a possibility of the service or product, processes and procedures failing to meet customer expectations as a result, customers may feel aggrieved. 
Therefore, Customer complaints handling is part of the business life of any corporate entity.  Watu considers quality customer service a major competitive advantage for its sustainable business growth; thus, customer dissatisfaction/complaint is a primary concern for Watu. This Customer service complaints policy (“the Policy”) seeks to stipulate the key roles of different stakeholders in achieving customer satisfaction in handling customer complaints. 
2. DEFINITIONS and ABBREVIATIONS
   1. Query this a service request relating to the accident, theft case, asset tracking, GPS failure, repairs, rescheduling, restructuring, storage, transfer of loan, change of guarantor or personal information update, inquiry on other products, Insurance cover/policy, permits and loan details.
   2. Complaint means dissatisfaction expressed by a consumer on a financial product or service provided by a financial service provider.
   3. Complainant means a person who has submitted a specific complaint to Watu and who:
1. Is a customer or prospective customer of Watu and must be directly interested in the agreement, product, or service to which the complaint relates; or 
2. Has submitted the complaint on behalf of a person, provided that a prospective customer will only be regarded as a complainant to the extent that the complaint relates to the prospective customer’s dissatisfaction in relation to the application, approach, solicitation or advertising or marketing material contemplated in the definition of “prospective customer”.
   1. Consumer means a person that has used or is, using any financial products or services provided by a financial service provider.
   2. Customer Care Supervisor means personnel who oversee  the customer care team and the  operations and activities at Watu, also called “CCS”.
   3. Customer Care  Officer is the person responsible for receiving and sending out communication to customers regarding queries, complaints, and emergencies and ensuring that the customers are informed of necessary changes. Also referred to as CSO.
2.4 Existing Customer means a person that has a loan with Watu.
   4. Financial service provider means an institution licensed, regulated and supervised by the Bank of Tanzania. Watu/Company is referred to as the financial service provider. 
   5. Feedback information about customer reactions to a product, a Company’s representative performance of a task, etc., which is used as a basis for improvement.
2.5 Prospective customer means any person who has applied to or otherwise approached Watu in relation to becoming a customer of Watu or who has been solicited by Watu to become a customer or receive marketing or advertising material in relation to Watu’s products or services. 
   6. The Portfolio Quality Officer is  responsible for collecting customer repayment and assisting customers in maintaining a good loan portfolio with Watu. Also called “PQO”.
   7. Turn Around Time “TAT”.


3. PRINCIPLES FOR EFFECTIVE HANDLING OF CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS
   1. Accessibility: Complaints-handling process must be easily accessible to all customers willing to file a complaint. The Company shall disseminate information on the details of making and resolving complaints. The information provided shall be easy to understand and in clear language. Information and assistance in making a complaint shall be available to the customers through displays in Watu branches and websites.  
   2. Accountability
      1. The Company should ensure that accountability for and reporting on actions and decisions of the Company concerning complaints handling are established.
      2. The key stakeholders are performing their duty timely to ensure compliance with the Policy.
      3. Access to the complaints-handling process should be free of charge to the complainant.
   3. Confidentiality: Personally identifiable information concerning the complainant must be available to address the complaint within the Company and be actively protected from disclosure unless the customer or complaint expressly consents to its disclosure. This refers to not sharing the names and addresses of the complainant with third parties and/or the offenders of the aggrieved complainant.


   4. Customer Focus Approach: As for the Company, customer focus is among our key core values. We strive to provide our customers with world-class support and service. Therefore, when handling customer Complaints, we are open to receiving feedback. We are committed to resolving the complaints by taking the necessary steps/actions to ensure service satisfaction and using the best practices to assist our customers in their journey.
   5. Continued Improvement: The Company embraces continued improvement philosophy by improving the complaints-handling process and the quality of products and services.
   6. Charges: Access to the complaints-handling process and procedure is free of charge to the complainant.
   7. Responsiveness: Receipts of each complaint must be acknowledged to the complainant immediately. The responsible person must address Complaints promptly according to their urgency. For example, High-Risk issues must be processed immediately. The complainants must be treated courteously and kept informed of their complaints' progress through the complaints-handling process.
   8. Objectivity: Each complaint must be addressed equitably, objectively and unbiasedly through the complaint handling process. Any officer who is part of or involved in the Complaint from the customer shall not be involved in the complaint process and handling to ensure fairness and impartiality.
   9.  Visibility: This principle requires the Company to inform customers and other interested parties about how and where to complain.


4. GUIDING INSTRUMENTS
   1. Legislation
      1. Bank of Tanzania (Financial Consumer Protection) Regulations 2019, (Consumer Protection Regulation);
      2. Microfinance Act, 2018 (MIF Act); 
      3. Microfinance (Non-Deposit taking Microfinance Service Providers) Regulations, 2019, (MIF Regulations); and
      4. The Fair Competition Act, 2003, (FCC Act).






5. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITY
   1. Role of Board of Directors
      1. Approving this Policy and Procedure for customer complaint handling.
      2. Ensure management implements customer complaint handling processes and procedures as per the Policy and Procedure to resolve complaints quickly and fairly.
      3. Receive quarterly analyses of customer complaint reports and their resolution from management. (Annex A-sample of the report to the Board).
      4. Ensure that the Board resolutions regarding customer complaints are fully implemented. 
      5. Ensure management resolves customer complaints fairly, justly and unbiasedly.


   2. Role of the Management
      1. Implementing the Policy and Procedure approved by the Board.
      2. Ensuring there is awareness among the employees of the customer complaint handling process and the need for delivery of excellent customer services throughout the Company.
      3. Ensuring that information about the customer handling process is communicated to customers in an easily accessible manner.
      4. Ensuring customer complaints are properly classified and analysed to identify systematic, recurring, and single incident problems and trends and to help eliminate underlying causes of complaints.
      5. Ensuring customer complaints are resolved quickly and fairly by the responsible person who received the reported  complaint. 
      6. Ensuring there is a process for rapid and effective notification to management of any significant complaints that the branch or customer care department cannot resolve. 
      7. Review the Complaints Handling Procedure to ensure it is continually improved.
      8. To receive monthly customer complaint reports with resolution from branches or customer care departments.
      9. Ensure that no personally identifiable complaint data is disclosed to the public.
      10. Carry customer complaint handling process audit to determine process conformity to Complaint Handling Procedure and process suitability to achieve complaints handling objectives.
      11. Ensure employees handling a complaint  immediately inform the management if they are involved directly or indirectly to avoid a potential conflict of interest.
      12. To put in place a clear mechanism to reward those in front-line staff who shall appear to have handled complaints professionally prescribed in the Procedure and take disciplinary actions against those who fail to comply.


6. CLASSIFICATION OF COMPLAINTS
We have classified Customer complaints into three categories as explained below:
   3. Systematic complaints are complaints that arise due to the failure of a system, process, procedure or practice of a staff that causes detriment to a significant number or class of end users of the services and which are within Watu’s ability to resolve. Such as IT system slowdown, mobile money operator system downtime, etc.
   4. Recurring complaints are those complaints arising from other sources apart from systematic ones experienced more than once during the month. Such as unfriendly employees, lack of professionalism and poor customer service.
   5. Single incident complaints are those arising from non-systematic causes that are rarely experienced, i.e., once a month under special circumstances such as credit report updates.
7. A complaint may relate to but is not limited to, for example, 
1. A failure to provide a service;
2. An inadequate quality or standard of service;
3. The loan application process;
4. A request for a service or information that has not been actioned or answered;
5. Our Policies;
6. The quality and availability of facilities;
7. The behavior of a staff member or contractor; and/or
8. Treatment by or attitude of a member of the staff.
8. A complaint is not:
1. A routine first-time request for a service
2. A request for information or an explanation of policy or practice
3. A grievance by a member of the staff
4. Issues that are in court or have already been heard by a court or tribunal
5. A request for information


9. Complaint submission.
1. Email: All emails received via Watu’s email will be forwarded to the respective country the complaint is logged to and forwarded to the HOD and supervisor for follow-up. The response will be provided via email.


2. Website: All Complaints filed via the website are forwarded to the Customer Service HOD and supervisor for follow-up. And shall be responded to with the contact details provided. 


3. Telephone: The Call centre team dealing with inbound calls must ensure that all incoming calls are attended to. Complaints must be filed in the Customer Complaints and Feedback form.


4. Physical Visit: Complaints received at the branch level or during stage visitation will be attended to immediately. Unless the Complaint requires different departmental reviews/approvals or further investigation, the Complaint shall be resolved within the period of the Complainant's visit. A record of the Complaint has to be filed in the Customer Complaints and Feedback form by the attending staff.


5. Postal Address: All Complaints received via post must be registered as per the Internal and External Communication Procedures. Complainants must be contacted immediately to confirm receipt of the letter and proceed with filing the Complaint into the Customer Care Portal for review and processing.


10.  Various situations in Handling Customer Complaints, necessary steps to take as follows:
   1. Who can make a complaint? 
Anyone who receives, requests, or is affected by our services can make a complaint. Sometimes a customer may be unable or reluctant to make a complaint independently. We will accept complaints from third parties as long as the customer has written consent. 
   2. Handling anonymous complaints,
We value all complaints. This means we treat all complaints seriously, including anonymous ones and will take action to consider them further whenever it is proper. Generally, we will consider an anonymous complaint if it gives enough information for us to make further inquiries. Failing this, we may decide not to pursue it, and it will not be recorded as a complaint. The responsible manager must authorize a decision not to pursue an anonymous complaint.
When an anonymous complaint contains serious allegations, irrespective of the circumstance, it must immediately refer to the Senior Management team for further directives.
   3. Usually, Anonymous complaints are not issued in the complaint system however, they must be handled discreetly and thoroughly investigated. Such complaints are escalated to respective stakeholders for corrective action as suitable. For example, sales agents promoting only one bike brand out of three available brands claim their brand of a motorbike is the only brand with the GPS tracker installed to boost sales to the brand. When customers meet our staff officials, facts are explained as their grievances. Such information is conveyed to the Marketing HOD and the Senior Management Team to ascertain the allegations and take necessary action to ensure there is no bias with partnered brands. What if the customer doesn’t want to complain?
Complaints areall expressions of dissatisfaction that meet a definition of a complaint. If someone does not want to begin the formal complaints procedure, we will not record their dissatisfaction as a complaint but raise the opportunity to improve services. We should encourage customers to submit their complaints and allow us to deal with them through the procedure. This will ensure they are updated on the actions and get a timely response to their complaint. however, if  the customer insists that they do not wish to complain formally, we will record the issue as an anonymous complaint. This will ensure that: 
1. We do not record their details on the complaints database;
2. We do not contact them again about the matter; and 
3. The complaints data we record are complete, enabling us to consider the matter and take corrective action where suitable. 
 
   4.  Complaints involving more than one department or Company
When a complaint relates to the actions of two or more departments, the customer will receive only one response from the complaints handler. The complaint will be investigated and sent to respective departments and organisations to clarify and improve services. 
For example, many disgruntled customers claim that authorised workshop mechanics are rude and provide unsatisfactory repairs to their motorbikes. These complaints are communicated to the Head of Service and Repairs of the specific vehicle brand to counter the claims and take action toward the services rendered.


11.  The complaints handling process
This aims to provide a quick, simple and streamlined process for resolving complaints early by capable, well-trained staff.
Our complaints process provides two opportunities to resolve complaints internally: 
1. First resolution
For issues that are straightforward and easily resolved, requiring little or no investigation. First resolutions involve an apology, an explanation, or other actions to resolve the matter quickly. The resolution can be provided instantly or within 3 hours, not after 24 working hours. 
Any staff member may deal with complaints at this stage unless they are the subject of the complaint or have a clear conflict in the matter. In this instance, the complaint should be handed in the set procedure within an appropriate time to support the area of resolution.
The main principle is to seek early resolution, resolving complaints at the earliest opportunity and as close to the point of service as possible. This may mean a face-to-face discussion with the customer or asking a suitable staff member to deal directly with the complaint.
For example, A complaint was raised due to an assets Insurance coverage payment delay. The first resolution would be to apologize for the inconvenience and, on the spot, double-check the Tiramis website (https://tiramis.tira.go.tz/) to prove whether this is true. If the coverage is paid, the complainant will be shown proof of payment of the insurance coverage. If the payment is not made, then the asset registration number shall be sent to the back office officials for the insurance to be paid for. Or to be provided with a reason for the insurance coverage not being paid for. Such circumstances occur when there is an insurance database error.






2. Investigation
For issues that have not been resolved during the first resolution or require further information before resolving, the Compliance and Investigation Department shall conduct an internal investigation, and resolution must be provided within 48 hours after receiving the complaint.
For example, a complainant raised  where the customer was harshly spoken to by their PQO. The Compliance Department will investigate the claims through the recorded audio files of the staff in question to confirm or deny the allegations. If the audio(s) confirm the allegations, the HoD and Supervisor of the respective department shall be notified and must provide an action plan for the Customer grievances. Suppose the Complaints are recurring of similar nature. In that case, the Compliance and Investigation Department will notify the HoD, Supervisor and HR after receiving the allegations and completing an investigation report on the cause of action for the personnel in question. 
It is to be understood that Watu has zero tolerance for customer harassment and mistreatment by any employee or service provider.
3. Case resolution & confirmation: This step aims to ensure that the final resolution is clear and fair with consideration of the merits and facts of the case in line with prescribed provisions from the respective legislation. Also, confirmation and consultation with the Senior Management and or relative business unit may be required in this step before finalization and interaction with the complainant. It should be confirmed that:
1. Watu ensures that the proposed resolution meets corporate guidelines and does not prejudice the client in any unnecessary legal, reputational or financial manner. 
2. The proposed action is documented, discussed, deliberated upon, and agreed with.
3. The solution is discussed and reviewed from both Watu's and the complainant’s viewpoints to ensure fairness and clarity.
4. The review includes recognition and documentation of any underlying issues that have contributed to the complaint and recommendations for actions to prevent further occurrence.
The Complaints handler and the Management must ensure action is taken to resolve the complaint and that the complainant is provided with an update. The Customer Service Team should record the complaint outcome in the Customer Complaints & Feedback - Tanzania Response sheet. 
Complaints that can be resolved right away by a member of staff or the complaints handler will require a meager investigation and the TAT for such complaints is ≤14 days.
For high-risk complaints, the Management shall review their respective complaints and the documents attached. If the resolution is clear, the complaints handler shall contact the Complainant and inform them on their discovery and determination of the Complaint filed.
Some cases might take longer than the expected TAT, clients will be updated accordingly. 
If within 14 Days of the client logging the complaint, the outcome of the complaint is not in the complainant’s favor, reasons must be provided, and the Customer Complaints & Feedback - Tanzania Response sheet updated accordingly.
Response to complainant/regulator
In this, Watu needs to ensure that they provide the customer with a resolution to their complaints within the committed timelines. A complaint can only be classified as resolved when we have communicated a final response to the customer. If the phone is used as a medium to record the agreement, there is a need to ensure that the system in place records the customers’ acceptance.
If the Complainant is not satisfied with the resolution proposed by the Complaint handler, the Complaint should be reviewed by the management. The final offer must then be officially made to the customer in writing or over a recorded phone and the complaint is then deemed as resolved/closed. If the customer, despite our remedies, is not satisfied with our resolutions, the customer service team may advise the customer to escalate their complaints to our local regulator for review.
What to do when you receive a complaint
1. On receiving a complaint, you must log it to the Customer Complaints & Feedback form.
 If possible, provide a first resolution. The complaints handler will use this information to decide whether the issue can be defined as a complaint 
For example 
* Customers complaining about why the company does not pay for comprehensive insurance. 
* Complaint that the company does not care about its customers. The company does not provide education to customers on how to use their motorbikes and motorbike safety procedures. 
2. Decide next whether or not the complaint is suitable for a second resolution. 
Some complaints will need to be fully investigated before you can give the customer a suitable response. The complaints handler must escalate the complaint immediately to the investigation stage.


3. Where a second resolution is appropriate you must consider four key questions:
* What exactly is the customer's complaint(s)?
It is important to be clear about exactly what the customer is complaining about. You may need to ask the customer supplementary questions to get a full picture.
* What does the customer want to achieve by complaining?
At the outset, clarify the outcome the customer wants. Of course, the customer may not be clear about this, so you may need to probe further to find out what they expect and whether they can be satisfied.
* Can it be achieved, or explain why not?
If you can achieve the expected outcome by providing an on-the-spot apology or explaining why you cannot achieve it, you should do so. If you consider an apology suitable, you may proceed by doing so.
* If it can not be resolved with the first resolution, determine by whom it can be escalated for assistance
Process Steps
  

Step 1: Receive, categorize and record. 
To ensure a swift resolution, departments and categories under complaints were created. The categories in the system are set up to reflect the standard complaints and service requests. The departments listed are subject to change based on the company's growth. Additions will be made or removed at any point in time.
Department under complaint 
* Branch
* Filed Marketing
* Repossession
* Recovery
* PQO
* Asset Finance
* Back office
* GPS
* Finance
* Logistics
* Management 
* IT
* Warehouse officials
* Call center 
* Social media
* TVS Factory
* Bajaj Factory
* Hero Factory
* Watu simu
Categories of Complaints and Service Requests
1. Loan application 
Complaint indicating that no loan application was done but receives repayment reminder texts.
1. Complaint indicating that the loan was not disbursed as per the agreed TAT.
2. This includes complaints relating to fraud.
2. Debt collection
1. This includes complaints relating to fraud.
2. Complaint indicating that weekly installments are not deducted as they should be.
3. Dislikes the company's method of collection. 
3. Insurance
1. Delay in insurance package payment.
2. Complaints as to why the company does not provide comprehensive insurance.
3. Complaint regarding an Insurance claim.
4. Registration Card
Delay in registration card provision.


5. Payments
1. This involves a delay in a refund or reversal requests.
2. This includes complaints relating to fraud.
3. Complaint indicating that a client’s total amount captured is lower or higher than the agreed amount.
6. Downpayment
Complaints on the downpayment use or amount.
7. Repossession
Complaint on unfair asset repossession procedures.
8. Mechanical Problems
Complaint regarding assets having constant mechanical problems.
9. Customer Services
The customer is not satisfied with the service provided by the Watu staff across all customer touchpoints.
10. Payment SMS notification
Customers not receiving verification texts after repayment from Watu.
11. Stolen assets
Customers are not satisfied with asset theft and follow-ups by the company.
12. PQO harassment
Complaint regarding actions taken, language and tone used by the PQO officer during debt collection.


13. Recovery Officer harassment
Complaint regarding actions taken, language and tone used by the asset finance recovery  officer during physical visit debt collection.
14. Customer care harassment
Complaint regarding actions taken, language and tone used by the customer care officer whilst serving the customer over the phone or physically.
15. Watu Simu's complaint
1. Delay in payment rectification
2. Delay in phone unlocking 
16. Misrepresentation
1. This complaint indicates that there is an element of dishonesty during the loan application process
2.  This involves changes in loan disbursement amount which is contrary to the loan agreement
3. Relates to a change of loan term against the client’s will and awareness.
17. Loan Term Dispute
1. Compliant indicates that a client is not in agreement with a processed loan term
2. Relates to complaints on restructuring or rescheduling of the weekly repayments 
18. Fraud
1. This complaint indicates that there is a manipulation of the loan process during the services.
2. Relates to a change of loan term against the client’s will and awareness. 
19. Non-Client
A concerned party stating a complaint on behalf of regarding circumstances posed to either family or friends. 
20. Digital
1. Customers receiving SMS from an entity claiming to be Watu regarding service requests.
Step 2: Complaint acknowledgment
The Complaints handler will acknowledge the receipt of the complaint and will contact the customer within 24 hours (Monday to Friday). If the complaint cannot be resolved at this stage, then the complainant is to be kept updated during the investigation until the complaint is resolved. The purpose of this is to ensure transparency and visibility ensuring that the complainant has full knowledge of the procedures for the resolution of their complaints. 
Step 3: Case investigation (If required)
The purpose of this step is to follow up on all aspects of the complaint, both internal and external, to ensure that the key facts are identified and clarified. All areas of interaction and communication should be established (who, what, where, when, why, etc.) and documented where possible.
The investigation feedback must be provided to the customer and or staff who raised the complaint. The cause of the complaint and how it should be resolved; results/feedback from the investigation should be updated on the Customer complaints & feedback response sheet. The Complaints officer should ensure that the investigation is thorough and that all aspects of the complaint have been investigated.
Once a complaint is investigated and an error or service failure has been confirmed, we will apologize to the customer and take the final appropriate remedies that are fair to the customer.


Escalation process for complaints
Complaints may be escalated to the Legal, and Compliance and Investigation Department/ Management for review and investigation if the nature of the complaint would expose Watu to high risks. All reviews and investigations of complaints shall follow the respective departmental procedures.
The Complainant has the right to escalate the Complaint to the Bank of Tanzania or Courts of Law if the Complainant is not satisfied with the outcome of the Complaint Resolution.
1. Complaints escalated to Courts of Law shall be handled by the Legal department.
2. Complaints escalated to the Bank of Tanzania shall be determined by the Bank of Tanzania in compliance with the Bank of Tanzania (Financial Consumer Protection) Regulations of 2019.
* In the event that Watu is dissatisfied with the outcome of the Bank of Tanzania’s determination of the Complaint filed, Watu will file the request for review form attached in the Annexure within 7 days from the date of delivery of the determination by the Bank of Tanzania in order to appeal the Bank of Tanzania’s determination.
* If Watu is dissatisfied with the revision of the Bank of Tanzania, Watu has the right to apply for judicial review on the matter.
Closing the complaint at the first resolution stage 
When the customer has been informed of the outcome, the Complaints Handler must ensure that our response to the complaint addresses all the topics we are responsible for and explains the reasons for our decision. It is also important to keep a full and accurate record of the decision you have reached and given to the customer. You should then close the complaint and update the complaints system accordingly.




When to escalate to the investigation stage 
The Complaints Handler must escalate a complaint to the investigation stage when: 
* Frontline resolution was tried but the customer remains dissatisfied and requests an investigation. This may happen immediately when you communicate the decision at the frontline stage, or sometime later.
* The issues raised are complex and require detailed investigation. 
*  The complaint relates to serious, high-risk or high-profile issues. 
When you escalate a previously closed complaint from the frontline resolution stage, you should reopen the complaint on the complaints system.
Take special care to identify complaints that might: 
* Be serious, high risk, or high profile, as these may require particular action, for example, escalation to  Senior management, or raising critical issues that need senior management’s direct input. 
We define potential high-risk or high-profile complaints as involving: 
*  An allegation of corruption against an employee or the company. 
*  A claim of dereliction of duty by an employee or the company.
*  A claim of personal injury that has incapacitated the customer.
* A potentially significant risk to the Company's operations. 
* A claim of discrimination, with due regard to protected characteristics as set out in reference law books.
* An allegation of significant harm or abuse or where there is a suspicion that someone may suffer significant harm.
* Serious service failure, for example, major delays in providing, or repeated failures to provide a service. 
* Significant and ongoing press interest. 


Learning From Complaints 
At the earliest opportunity after closing the complaint, the complaint handler must inform the customer and staff of the relevant department about the investigation’s findings and  recommendations. Senior management will regularly review the information gathered from complaints and consider whether we should improve our services or update our internal policies and procedures. 
As a minimum, we must:
* Use complaints data to identify the root cause of complaints.
* Take action to reduce the risk of recurrence.
* Record the details of corrective action in the complaints file, and 
* Systematically review complaints performance reports to improve service delivery. 
Where we have found that our services should be improved, we must:
*  Authorize the action needed to improve services. 
* Designate an officer (or team) as the issue’s ‘owner’, with responsibility for ensuring the action is taken and by when.
* Ensure the designated officer follows up to ensure the action is taken by the agreed date. 
* Where appropriate, monitor performance in the service area to ensure the issue has been resolved.
* Ensure that our staff learns from complaints. 
Maintaining Confidentiality 
Confidentiality is important in complaint handling. It includes maintaining the customer’s confidentiality and explaining to them the importance of confidentiality generally. We must always bear in mind legal requirements, for example, data protection legislation, as well as internal policies on confidentiality and the use of customers' information. 
Managing Unacceptable Behavior 
In times of trouble or distress, people may act out of character. The circumstances leading to a complaint may result in the customer acting unacceptably. Customers who have a history of challenging or inappropriate behavior, or have difficulty expressing themselves, may still have a legitimate grievance. A customer's reasons for complaining may contribute to how they present their complaint. Regardless of this, we must treat all complaints seriously and properly assess them.
However, the actions of customers who are angry, demanding or persistent may result in unreasonable demands on time and resources or unacceptable behavior towards our staff. So we will apply our policies and procedures to protect staff from behavior such as unreasonable persistence, threats or offensiveness from customers. If we decide to restrict a customer’s contact with us, we will communicate that decision to them.
Customer Service Conduct
It is imperative all staff abide by the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics when dealing with Complainants.
It is necessary for all staff to empathize with the Complainant when handling the matter and provide all necessary information to the customer’s satisfaction.
The Complaints Handler shall ensure that they maintain their professionalism when dealing with unreasonable complainant conduct. Examples include;
* Unrelenting contact (e.g. excessive and unnecessary phone calls or emails)
* Demanding conduct (e.g. demanding more reviews than departmental procedures allow, or demanding a different outcome without showing the original decision was incorrect)
* Unreasonable lack of cooperation (e.g. refusing to identify the issue of the complaint or providing disorganized information)
* Unreasonable arguments (e.g. making irrational claims)
* Unreasonable behavior (e.g. aggression or violence to staff, or threatening harm to self and others).
Any and all unreasonable Complainant conduct must be reported to the Senior management to be put on record.
Every day, customer service representatives across customer touch points face situations when what they say makes or breaks a service interaction. Below are ten phrases that should never be used as they frustrate and anger customers.  
No.” 
“I don’t know.” 
“That’s not my job / That’s not my department.” 
“You are right – that is bad” 
“Calm down.” 
“I’m busy right now.” 
“Call me back.” 
“That’s not my fault.” 
“You need to talk to my supervisor.” 
“You want it by when?” 
Confidentiality And Integrity Of Customer’s Data
High-risk complaints are to be filled, stored, and managed by the Complaints handling team under the observation of the administration. The Complaints Handling team can review the files and share them with other departments in case of investigation or reconciliation.
Other data/information are stored in the Customer complaints handler activity sheet and the Customer complaint and feedback Tanzania response sheet whereby only the Customer Complaints team has access to.    
Complaint Reporting
The Customer Service Team shall be responsible for sharing Complaints reports for internal and external review in order to ensure business improvement in the servicing of the public. Regular reports will be run on:
1. The number of complaints received
2. The outcome of complaints and root cause of complaints
3. Issues arising from complaints
4. Systemic issues identified and
5. The number of requests we receive for internal and/or external review of our complaint handling.


The Complaints should be made known during 
* Management Reports
* CC weekly management updates
* Board Reports
* Customer Service monthly and quarterly reports
* Regulatory Reports
Communication And Awareness
A copy of the Procedure shall be circulated to all employees responsible for customer care to ensure compliance. Any significant changes to the Procedure will also be communicated to the respective recipients.
How we handle complaints must be visible and accessible. Publication at a minimum will include hosting on the company website on how to lodge a complaint and how it will be managed. Our methods to publicize the complaint resolution will be on posters and flyers placed at our office and service area within our premises.  
These publications shall be driven by the Customer Service and Marketing Department and shall ensure that customers have information with regards to the mechanisms of handling Complaints which shall include: 
1. Available channels for complaints handling and redress
2. Timeline for complaints resolution
3. Responsibility of the complainant at each stage of the process
4. The obligation of the financial service provider
5. Escalation process to various levels
Authority And Approval
This procedure will be reviewed on a regular basis to ensure it accurately represents current market best practices and regulatory compliance. This procedure can be changed, modified, revised or can be rescinded completely by ABC at any time with appropriate approvals.








12. DELEGATION OF POWER
   1. Under this Policy, the Board of Directors delegates its powers to the management team to handle customer or related parties' complaints in conformity with the laws of Tanzania and in a manner that shall preserve the Company’s reputation to the general public.
   2. On the power given to the management team, the management delegates its powers to the customer service department to resolve complaints in conformity with the laws of Tanzania to preserve the Company’s reputation to the general public. Their decision is final, provided it has not broken the laws of Tanzania.
   3. The customer service department delegates its powers to Heads/Supervisors/Senior officers of each department and the Branch Managers to resolve complaints in conformity with the laws of Tanzania and this policy to preserve the Company’s reputation to the general public.


13. TIME FRAME
   1. Generally, the resolution timeframe shall be governed by the First Schedule of the Financial Consumer Protection Regulations.
   2. For the purpose of clarity, any complaint that seems to be minor and under the power of customer service or Branch Managers must be properly and fairly resolved in compliance with the compliance handling Procedure within 24 hours. However, if the problem is complex and serious and must be referred to management or consultation with other departments, it must be resolved within 14 days.


Timelines 
The first resolution must be completed within five working days, although in practice we would often expect to resolve the complaint much sooner i.e. 24 hours. Some cases might take longer than the expected TAT. Clients will be updated accordingly.
It is important to respond to customers within five working days, either by fully resolving the matter or by explaining why it needs investigation. 
Extension of the timeline 


In exceptional circumstances, where there are clear and justifiable reasons for doing so, the Complaints Handler may agree to an extension of no more than fourteen working days with the customer. This must only happen when an extension will make it more likely that the complaint will be resolved through a first resolution. 
If, however, the issues are so complex that they cannot be resolved in fourteen working days, it is right to escalate the complaint straight to the investigation stage. Where appropriate you must tell the customer about the reasons for the delay, and when they can expect a response. 
If the customer does not agree to an extension but it is unavoidable and reasonable, a Senior Manager must decide on the extension. You must then tell the customer about the delay and explain why the extension is necessary. It is important that such extensions do not become the norm; only rarely should you extend the timeline at the frontline resolution stage. All attempts to resolve the complaint at this stage must take no longer than twenty-eight working days from the date you receive the complaint.


14. SCOPE OF THE POLICY
This policy shall apply only to customer complaints handling, and all other service-related queries will be handled following the standards, procedures and processes established by the Customer care department and Heads of departments as the case may be.


15.  REPORTING OF COMPLAINTS
   1. The management should present customer complaints and resolutions to the Board of Directors quarterly to enable them to assess the efficiency of the customer complaint handling process and guide management accordingly (see Annex A). 
   2. The management should maintain records of all complaints and resolutions. Such reports are to be submitted to the BoT in the manner prescribed under the Regulations and upon audit.
16.  POLICY REVIEW
The Board shall review this policy at least once a year and when necessary.
17.  POLICY APPROVAL
The Board of Directors is responsible for approving the Customer Service Complaints Handling Policy of the Company and any proposed amendments thereto.


N.B. Also, we should consider have in place a Fair Redress Mechanism and Compensation Policy for an aggrieved customer who qualifies for compensation as per the regulations.
















________________


ANNEX A: TEMPLATE OF CUSTOMER COMPLAINT REPORT


1. QUARTERLY CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS REPORT
Financial Year………………………….Quarter Ending…………………………………………………
Date Received
	Name of Complainant
	Brief Description of Complaint
	Complaint Channel (i.e. verbal, email.)
	Complaint Category
	Origin ( HQ, Call Centre, Branch)
	Date Acknowledged
	Action Taken 
	Action Date 
	Status
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	

2. COMPLAINTS RECEIVED, RESOLVED AND PENDING FOR THE QUARTER ENDED…………


 
	Complaint Received during the Quarter.
	Complaints Pending as of Quarter.
	Complaint Resolved
	% of Settlement
	 At HQ
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 At Branches
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	



________________


CUSTOMER COMPLAINT HANDLING AND ESCALATION PROCESS AND PROCEDURE
Nature of Complaints
	Report 
	Email addresses
	Phone numbers
	1st Escalation
	To call centre/ customer care branch offices
	info@watuafrica.co.tz customer care 
www.watuafrica.co.tz website


	

	2nd Escalation 
	Head/ Supervisor Customer Care department if no resolution after 24 hours for minor cases.
	ymajid@watuafrica.co.tz Customer care supervisor
skuoko@watuafrica.co.tz Head of Marketing


	

	3rd Escalation
	To the Senior Management for major matters and matters which have failed to be resolved within 7 days from the date of the lodge.
	

	



	Transfer of Ownership/Registration Cards
	To Back Officer 
	smatata@watuafrica.co.tz


	

	For Contract/BoT Regulations/Litigation related matters 
	To the Legal department (internal escalation)
	legal@watuafrica.co.tz
	+255 748 501 677
	Refunds of down payment or extra payments
	Branch Managers who shall forward the matter to the finance manager 
	ssayore@watuafrica.co.tz Tegeta Branch Manager 
smachibya@watuafrica.co.tz Mwenge Branch Manager
aruhuza@watuafrica.co.tz Temeke Branch Manager
imdee@watuafrica.co.tz Mwanza Branch Manager
rshikonyi@watuafrica.co.tz Growth Manager
	



	Bike malfunctions/Dealers warranty matters
	Call Center/Branch Managers who shall escalate matters to the logistics department
	ssayore@watuafrica.co.tz Tegeta Branch Manager 
smachibya@watuafrica.co.tz Mwenge Branch Manager
aruhuza@watuafrica.co.tz Temeke Branch Manager
imdee@watuafrica.co.tz Mwanza Branch Manager
rshikonyi@watuafrica.co.tz Growth Manager
imaganga@nyalimwenge.co.tz Logistics Officer


	

	Credit reference Bureau matters
	Growth Manager and Lead Operations Manager (internal escalation)
	lvitola@watuafrica.com - Lead Operations Manager
rshikonyi@watuafrica.co.tz Growth Manager
lnatai@Watuafrica.co.tz - Legal and compliance officer


	

	For any suspicious reports involving employees/other third parties 
	To the Legal and Compliance officer (internal escalation)
	legal@watuafrica.co.tz


	+255 748 501 677
	Complaint Resolutions Declaration  Form
	

	

	

	

Sensitivity: Internal