PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT
NO…. of 2023
Version 2.0






………………………………………………………………………………………………..






AND








WATU CREDIT UGANDA LIMITED










In respect to 










CONNECTIVITY ASSET FINANCING




Partnership Agreement


This Partnership Agreement, “the Agreement,” is made on the …………………………………, 2023 (the "Effective Date"). 
BETWEEN
………………………………………………………….. a private limited company incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Uganda with Certificate of Incorporation No………………………… with its registered address at ………………………………………………………..P.O.Box_____________ (Hereinafter referred to as “Dealer”, which expression shall where the context so requires to include its successors in title, lawful representatives and assignees, employees); 
AND
WATU CREDIT UGANDA LIMITED, is a limited liability company incorporated in the Republic of Uganda with the registration number 80020001840014 has its registered address situated at V House, Plot 2 Bukoto Street P.O.Box 16225 Kampala (hereinafter referred to as ‘’Watu’’, which expression shall where the context so requires to include its successor in title, lawful representatives and assignees),
WHEREAS:
1. the Dealer is engaged in supplying and selling such connectivity assets as smartphones, tablets, etc (hereinafter referred to as ‘’Devices’’);
2. Watu is engaged in the business of providing asset financing to its customers; and
3. the Parties are desirous to engage in a business arrangement within which Watu shall provide financing by issuing Loans to its customers for the purchase of Devices from the Dealer who shall supply the Devices to such customers in the manner described under this Agreement (subject to initially approved Devices list in Annex No. 1 as updated thereafter by e-mail).
NOW THEREFORE, THE PARTIES AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
1. DEFINITIONS AND TERMS
The following definitions and terms used in this Agreement shall have the meanings set forth below:
   1. “Customer” shall mean any person who intends to purchase any item from the Dealer.
   2. “Watu” shall mean WATU CREDIT UGANDA LIMITED.
   3. “Device” shall mean connectivity assets such as smartphones and tablets as supplied by the Dealer.
   4. “Watu Customer”, shall mean any customer who’s Device purchase from the Dealer is financed by Watu on a credit basis.
   5. “Watu Simu” is the brand name used by Watu for Device financing activities. 
   6. “Power of Attorney” authorisation to sign Loan Agreement with Watu Customers on behalf of Watu as included in Annex No. 2.
2. SCOPE AND PURPOSE
   1. This Agreement shall cover only Devices jointly agreed upon by the Parties (initially stated in Annex No. 1 and thereafter as per Watu approved Device list). This Partnership shall only apply to the extent of the business transactions/arrangements agreed upon by the Parties and not otherwise.
   2. The Partnership shall be an agreement between the Parties to work together in an effective, efficient and supportive manner that maintains Watu’s objectives and commitments to its customers with regards to Device financing.
   3. Devices supplied by the Dealer and financed by Watu shall be genuine, new, legally sourced and unused with 24 months Africa warranty.
   4. Screen protector and back cover (intended for the same Device) may be financed together with Device at Watu’s discretion.
   5. The Dealer shall notify Watu by email when the Dealer intends to work with other financing partners after signing of this Agreement.
3. DURATION OF THE AGREEMENT 
   1. This Agreement shall commence from the effective date stated above and shall continue for a period of one (1) year and thereafter automatically renew for consecutive periods of 1 year, unless terminated by either Party with 30 days prior written notice to the other.        
4. RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE DEALER
   1. The Dealer shall supply Devices to Watu Customers at fair and competitive prevailing retail prices agreed by the Parties in the Annex No. 1 forming part of this Agreement. Device quality shall always be according to prevailing industry standards.


   2. For Devices that are supplied on a credit basis to Watu Customers, the Dealer shall gather sales data from the previous week (Monday to Sunday) and send these in a statement to Watu on the following Monday. Upon receipt Watu shall reconcile and effect payments to the Dealer’s payment account provided to Watu within 7 days. 


   3. The Dealer shall strictly follow the Watu Customer’s onboarding process and instructions from Watu back-office staff when dealing with Customer loan applications and preparation of the loan documents.


   4. The Dealer (including Dealer’s designated employees and representatives) shall sign Loan Agreements on behalf of Watu during Customer onboarding process. This shall at all times be done with Watu’s guidance and following the prescribed communication channels.


   5. The Dealer shall ensure that its designated employees and representatives perform their duties pertaining to this Agreement with such care and diligence and without any abuse of the authority, in respect of services they render to Watu Customers. 


   6. Pursuant to Clause 4.4 the powers vested to the Dealer are limited to signing Loan Agreement prepared during Customer onboarding process. It is further agreed that  Watu has not authorised the Dealer in any manner whatsoever to engage in other business activities or entering into agreements with third parties on behalf of Watu except for those set out under this Agreement.


   7. In support of Clause 4.5 and 4.6, the Power of Attorney (Annex No. 2) shall cease when this Agreement expires or is terminated by either party. Watu has the rights to revoke the Power of Attorney unilaterally under this Agreement which shall be communicated to the Dealer immediately.


   8. The Dealer shall only release the Device upon the express approval from Watu in the Customer onboarding system.


   9. The Dealer shall ensure that the security software (Knox Guard or other software notified by Watu) has been successfully installed and activated prior to handing over the Device to Watu Customer. Watu may instruct the dealer to install or activate permissions on Device for other Watu’s or third party apps prior to handling of Device to Watu Customer.


   10. The Dealer shall always make known to Watu the full name and identity of its designated employees and representatives for access control purposes to the Watu Onboarding system. Watu will issue access credentials only to a specific person designated by the Dealer, and the Dealer shall immediately notify Watu by email if that person’s affiliation to Dealer has changed or has been terminated. It is not permitted to share the access credentials between different onboarding agents. The Dealer shall ensure that the designated onboarding agent(s) legally has the same confidentiality obligations in protection of Customer personal data and other confidential information as the Dealer itself.


   11. The Dealer shall ensure that the prospective Watu Customer is identified on-site during the onboarding process by his/her full name according to the original government-issued identification document and that person matches the photo on the identification document. 


   12. The Dealer hereby warrants and represents that at all times it shall supply Watu Customers with Devices which are genuine, of merchantable quality, and carry genuine manufacturer warranties that cover manufacturing defects in line with the warranty policies of the relevant Device manufacturer. 


   13. The Dealer shall issue an invoice to Customer indicating the name of the Customer and Device price, manufacturer, model, IMEI.


   14. Where the Dealer fails to adhere to the requirements set out in Clause 4.12, the Dealer shall be liable for losses incurred by Watu as a result of any claims arising from the supply of counterfeit Devices or Devices lacking the necessary manufacturer warranty.


   15. In the event of variations in Device prices, the Dealer shall notify Watu by e-mail at least 48 hours prior to the price change effective date. If Watu continues financing of Devices affected by price change, it will be deemed that Watu has accepted the price change.


   16. The Dealer shall charge no additional charges or fees at the time of the selling the Device to Watu Customers without written approval from Watu, breach of which shall result in material breach of this Agreement and Watu may exercise its contractual right to terminate this Agreement immediately. For the avoidance of doubt, this Clause does not apply to any charges that are levied by the Dealer’s service center in respect of repairs required by the Watu Customer after the sale of the Device.


   17. The Dealer is forbidden from applying different Device pricing to Watu Customers as opposed to other customers, failure of which may result in immediate termination of this Agreement.
   18. The Dealer shall take all reasonable steps, in accordance with good industry practice, to prevent any fraudulent activity by its staff, representatives, shareholders, directors and/or any of its suppliers, in connection with the sale and financing of Devices. The Dealer shall notify Watu immediately if it has a reason to suspect that any fraud has occurred or is occurring or is likely to occur. Watu reserves the right to seek legal redress for any acts of negligence, misconduct or failure to act by the Dealer that has or may have a negative impact on Watu. Any such acts may result in immediate suspension or termination of this Agreement.
   19. The Dealer is prohibited from directly or indirectly covering downpayment in any form or manner.


   20. Watu will analyze the Dealer’s performance by reviewing both the number of onboarded Customers and Customer credit performance. Watu will work with the Dealer to address any identified issues or mitigate risks. Watu reserves the right to terminate this Agreement immediately, in case the Dealer does not collaborate or the Dealer’s performance does not improve.


   21. Depending on the Dealer’s performance in relation to Watu’s expected and communicated targets, Watu may deploy interventions, including rewards or penalties, requests to change Dealer’s authorized staff handling Customer onboarding and ultimately termination of this Agreement based on failure to meet previously agreed targets.


   22. The Dealer hereby warrants and represents that, throughout the duration of this Agreement, they shall comply with all relevant tax laws and regulations, shall not employ or make use of child labour, shall not engage in any unlawful activities, and shall make all reasonable efforts to adhere to and promote best practice principles regarding environmental, social, and governance (ESG) matters. These warranties and representations shall be ongoing and shall continue in full force and effect for the term of this Agreement.


5. RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF WATU


   23. Watu shall provide Device financing for Watu Customers in the form of a loan, which shall be for the amount and period as identified in the Loan Agreement between Watu and its Customers.


   24. Device financing shall be based on Watu Customer onboarding process and procedures as notified to the Dealer. Watu may amend unilaterally from time to time the terms of the loan (e.g. downpayment amount, loan duration, weekly installment, interest rate, fees etc.), as well as the terms of the loan agreement, Watu Customer onboarding process and procedures, subject to 24 hours notice to the Dealer.


   25. Watu has the rights to suspend temporarily and permanently financing activity of certain devices or in certain geographical areas. Watu reserves the rights to change unilaterally and with immediate effect the terms of Device finance offering (down payment amount, interest rate, loan duration, client criteria etc.). Watu will seek to inform the Dealer about any such changes in advance.
   26. Watu shall provide the Dealer with training, branding and marketing materials as well as any other reasonable support required for the performance of this Agreement.
   27. Watu shall make payment to the Dealer within seven (7) days for the number of Devices released to Watu’s customers, based on the invoices received from the Dealer as per Clause 4.2.
   28. Watu shall provide the Dealer with access to its Onboarding platform for the purposes of onboarding Watu Customers and obtaining Watu’s loan approval. Watu reserves the right to determine at its sole discretion the Customers to be onboarded and approve or reject any loan request. Watu will normally provide reasons for Customer/loan rejection, however, Watu has the rights to withhold such information. 
   29. Watu shall provide the Dealer with the amounts pertaining to the downpayment amount, weekly/monthly installment amount and all such information that is necessary to enable the Dealer to correctly display the terms of Watu’s financing offer to Watu Customers in the Dealer’s sales locations.


   30. In addition, Watu shall also promptly inform the Dealer of any changes to the terms of the financing provided by Watu to Watu Customers.


   31. The terms of the loan agreement, downpayment amount, weekly installment, interest, fees and other terms, as well as the processes may be changed unilaterally by Watu from time to time, and Watu shall send an updated version to the Dealer at least 24 hours prior to the effective date.


6. Returns and Exchanges
   1. The Parties agree to be bound by the following process, being the existing returns and exchange policy:
      1. No cash refunds are permitted.
      2. Where a Device is brought back to the Dealer containing a manufacturing defect, then the Dealer shall direct the customer to Device manufacturer’s authorized service centre to assess the defect and advise the Customer accordingly as regards dealing with the defect. 
      3. Upon confirmation by the Device Manufacturer’s service centre that there are no other defects or damages to the Device, the Dealer shall arrange for such Device to be repaired at no charge to the Watu Customer provided the terms of the manufacturer’s warranty in respect of the Device permit such repairs.
      4.  Where the Manufacturer’s service centre discovers defects or damage other than that relating to a manufacturing defect, the Dealer shall be under no obligation to repair the Device except where the Watu Customer agrees to pay for such repairs.


7. CONFIDENTIALITY AND NON-DISCLOSURE 
   1. Each Party to this Agreement agrees that they will protect all confidential information provided by one Party to the other; treat all such confidential information as confidential to the extent that confidential treatment is allowed under the laws of Uganda, except as otherwise required by law, not to publish or disclose such information to any third party without the other Party’s written permission; and, to do so by using those methods and procedures normally used to protect the Party’s own confidential information. Any liability resulting from the wrongful disclosure of confidential information on the part of the Dealer, or its representatives shall rest with the Dealer. Disclosure of any confidential information by the Dealer or its representatives without the express written approval of Watu shall result in the immediate termination of this Agreement, with no costs to be borne by Watu, as well as Watu may seek any legal remedies and damages afforded by law.
   2. “Confidential Information” means all information disclosed by a Party (“Disclosing Party”) to the other Party (“Receiving Party”), whether orally or in writing, that is designated as confidential or that reasonably should be understood to be confidential given the nature of the information and the circumstances of disclosure. Watu’s Confidential Information includes Customer data; the terms and conditions of this Agreement, any sales and financial information, business and marketing plans, technology, software and technical information, product plans, pricing and designs, and business processes and internal policies (including customer onboarding and evaluation procedures). However, Confidential Information does not include any information that (i) is or becomes generally known to the public without breach of any obligation owed to the Disclosing Party, (ii) was known to the Receiving Party prior to its disclosure by the Disclosing Party without breach of any obligation owed to the Disclosing Party, (iii) is received from a third party without breach of any obligation owed to the Disclosing Party, or (iv) was independently developed by the Receiving Party.
   3. The Dealer shall ensure that Delear’s employees, shareholders, directors, external service providers and agents legally have the same confidentiality obligations in protection of Customer personal data and other Watu Confidential Information as the Dealer itself.
   4. Confidentiality obligations survive the termination of this Agreement, and remain in effect three (3) years following the termination.
8. FORCE MAJEURE
   1. Neither Party shall be held responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services or pandemic. 
   2. It is agreed by the Parties in such events as mentioned under Clause 8.1 above, the Parties may either mutually terminate the Agreement or resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
9. MISCELLANEOUS
   1. Amendments: Any amendments to this Agreement shall be mutually agreed upon between the Parties in writing and signed by both Parties.


   2. Assigning: Neither party hereto shall have a right to assign the rights/obligations herein without the other party’s consent and the Parties undertake to act in good faith concerning each other’s rights and obligations. 


   3. Representations and Warranties: Both Parties represent that they are fully authorized to enter into this Agreement. The performance and obligations of either Party will not violate or infringe upon the rights of any third-party or violate any other agreement between the Parties, individually, and any other person, organization, or business or any law or regulations.
   4. Indemnity: Each Party agree to indemnify and hold harmless the other Party, its respective affiliates, officers, agents, employees, and permitted successors and assigns against any and all claims, losses, damages, liabilities, penalties, punitive damages, expenses, reasonable legal fees and costs of any kind, which result from the negligence or breach of this Agreement by the indemnifying party, its respective successors and assigns that occurs in connection with this Agreement. This section remains in full force and effect even after termination of the Agreement by its natural termination or the early termination by either party.
   5. Severability: In the event any provision of this Agreement is deemed invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, that part shall be severed from the remainder of the Agreement and all other provisions should continue in full force and effect as valid and enforceable. 
   6. Waiver: The failure by either Party to exercise any right, power, or privilege under the terms of this Agreement will not be construed as a waiver of any subsequent or future exercise of that right, power, or privilege or the exercise of any other right, power, or privilege. 
   7. Termination: Termination shall be effective in the following manner: 


      5. Either Party may terminate this Agreement without cause by giving the other Party 30 days prior written notice. 


      6. In the event of a breach of terms and conditions to this Agreement, misrepresentation, dishonesty or any proven disreputable behavior on the part of either the Dealer or Watu, then the injured party shall have the sole right to terminate this Agreement in writing with immediate effect with issuance of a notice explaining the circumstances for the termination.


      7.  Watu shall have the sole right to terminate the Agreement without notice, in case of material breach which shall include fraud, Dealer’s violation of Watu’s Policies and Procedures and Dealer’s failure to perform agreed obligations within the Agreement despite the Dealer being informed of these obligations. The termination letter terminating the Agreement shall provide grounds for such termination to the Dealer. Watu shall have zero tolerance for criminal actions on the part of the Dealer.


   8. Notices: Any notice shall be deemed to be properly served if delivered to the registered office, SMS or email address of either party. 
For Watu:  simu@watuafrica.co.ug
For Dealer: ________________________


   9. Tax Obligation: Each Party in this Agreement shall bear and be responsible for their own tax obligations and compliance of its business activities for the duration of this Agreement and for any business proceeds emanating from this Agreement. 
   10. Liability separation: For the avoidance of doubt, at no point in time shall the non-compliance of any laws or Regulations by one Party implicate the other Party for the same by the virtue of this Agreement.


   11. Counterparts: This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and this has the same effect as if the signature on the counterparts were on a single copy of this Agreement. 


   12. Entire Agreement: This Agreement consists of the entire Agreement between the Parties and it prevails all other understandings or agreements whether written or verbal between the Parties.
10.              POST-TERMINATION OBLIGATIONS
   1. The Parties hereby agree that, either (a) upon the exercise by a Party of their right of termination under Clause 9.7 or (b) upon the exercise by a Party of their right of termination due to a breach of this Agreement by the other Party, the following steps will be completed and adhered to:
      1. The Dealer shall issue Watu with a statement containing all remaining outstanding balances owed by Watu to the Dealer under this Agreement.
      2. Watu shall promptly settle all the outstanding balances within 7 business days of receipt. 
      3. The Dealer shall transfer all relevant documentation in respect of Watu Customers who have entered into a loan agreement with Watu, including physically signed or original documents that have not been sent to Watu.
      4. The Dealer will cease to represent Watu in any capacity thereafter, removing all marketing materials in respect of the Device financing. 
      5. The Dealer shall return to Watu or destroy and delete Watu’s Confidential Information in its possession, as per Watu’s instructions.


11. GOVERNING LAW AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION
   1. The Agreement shall be governed and construed by the laws of the Republic of Uganda.
   2. Any disputes arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall as much as possible be settled amicably by the parties within 30 days, failure to resolve within the specified time the Parties will mutually agree to proceed with either arbitration or to the Court of law in Uganda. The place of Arbitration shall be Kampala, Uganda. The decision of the arbitration shall be final and binding upon the Parties. 


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the duly authorised representatives of the parties hereto have set hereunto their respective hand and or seals on the date first hereinabove mentioned.


SIGNED for and on behalf of …………………………………………


Name:        ……………………………………………


Signature:  .………………………………………..


Title: ………………………………………………
        
SIGNED for and on behalf of WATU CREDIT UGANDA LIMITED


Name:        ……………………………………………


Signature: .………………………………………..


Title:………………………………………………..        
Annex No. 1
INITIALLY APPROVED DEVICE LIST OFFERED BY THE DEALER 
AND FINANCED BY WATU


Manufacturer
	Model
	Device price
	Notes
	 
	 
	 
	

	 
	 
	 
	

	 
	 
	 
	

	 
	 
	 
	

	 
	 
	 
	

	 
	 
	 
	

	*Device price should include VAT
________________
Annex No. 2
                                    
Authorisation to onboard Customers on behalf of Watu Credit Uganda Limited
(where Parties have agreed on Customer onboarding by the Dealer)


WATU CREDIT UGANDA LIMITED on the day stated below hereby, while acting as the Principal, revocably appoints ……………………………………………….. (The Dealer) to act on its behalf as the Agent herein, to take such actions on its behalf as has been described within this Agreement and as relates to Customer Onboarding and to exercise such powers as are expressly delegated to the Agent (The Dealer) by the Principal (Watu) in law and under this Agreement and under any such terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.




Signed by: ………………………………………………..


ID Number: ………………………………………………
On Behalf of the Dealer




Dated: ………………………………………………………














Signed by: ………………………………………………..


Designation: ………………………………………………
On Behalf of WATU CREDIT UGANDA LIMITED




Dated: ………………………………………………………








________________
Annex No. 3
DATA PROCESSING AGREEMENT
This Data Processing Agreement ("Agreement") forms part of the Principal Agreement ("Partnership Agreement") between
Watu Credit Uganda Limited (The Data Controller) and ………………………………………………….. (The Dealer, the “Data Processor”), together as the “Parties. ”
WHEREAS
1. Watu acts as a Data Controller.
2. Watu wishes to appoint the Dealer as its agent in the onboarding of its Customers, which imply the processing of personal data belonging to Data Subjects (Customers, their designated contact persons and other private individuals) by the Data Processor.
3. The Parties seek to implement a Data Processing Agreement that complies with the requirements of the current legal framework under Uganda Data Protection and Privacy Act in relation to data processing and on the free movement of such data.
4. The Parties wish to lay down their rights and obligations.
IT IS AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
1.       Terms and expressions used in this Agreement shall have the following meaning:
1.1         "Agreement" means this Data Processing Agreement;
1.2        "Contracted Processor" means a Sub processor;
1.3        “Data Controller” means the person or entity that determines the purposes for which and the means by which personal data is processed.
1.4        “Data Processor” means person or entity that processes/works on personal data only on behalf of the Data Controller.
1.5        "Data Protection Laws" means Uganda Data Protection and Privacy Act 2019;
1.6        "Data Transfer" means a transfer of Watu’s Personal Data from Watu to the Data Processor or to a Contracted Processor; or an onward transfer of Watu’s Personal Data and that of Data subjects in contract with Watu from the Data Processor or the Contracted Processor to a Subcontracted Processor or to Watu, or between two establishments of the Data Processor, in each case, where such transfer would be prohibited by Uganda Data Protection Act;
1.7        “Data Subject” means any living individual whose data is being processed.
1.8        "Personal Data" means any information that relates to an identified or identifiable living individual – the Data Subject. Personal Data shall be processed by the Data Processor on behalf of Watu pursuant to or in connection with the Principal Agreement – Partnership Agreement;
1.9        "Sub processor" means any person appointed by or on behalf of The Data Processor to process Personal Data on behalf of Watu in connection with the Principal Agreement (Partnership Agreement).
1.10  The terms, "Commission", "Controller", "Data Subject", "Personal Data", "Personal Data Breach", "Processing" and "Supervisory Authority" shall have the same meaning as in the Uganda Data Protection Act and their cognate terms shall be construed accordingly;
2.       Processing of Personal Data belonging to Data Subjects:
The Data Processor shall:
2.1    comply with all applicable Data Protection Laws in Uganda in the Processing of Personal Data belonging to Data Subjects on behalf of Watu; and
2.2  shall not Process Personal Data other than on what is confirmed as relevant in Watu’s documented instructions.
3.       Data Processor’s Personnel
3.1    The Data Processor shall take reasonable steps to ensure the reliability of any of its employees, agents who may have access to the obtained Personal Data, ensuring in each case that access is strictly limited to those individuals who need to know / access the relevant Personal Data, as strictly necessary for the purposes of the Principal Agreement, and to comply with Applicable Laws in the context of that individual's duties to the Data Processor, ensuring that all such individuals are subject to confidentiality undertakings or professional or statutory obligations of confidentiality.
4.       Security
4.1    Taking into account the state of the art, the costs of implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of Data Processing as well as the risk of varying likelihood and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, Data Processor shall in relation to the obtained Personal Data, implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to that risk, including, as appropriate, the measures referred to under the Uganda Data Protection Act.
4.2    In assessing the appropriate level of security, Data Processor shall take account of the risks that are presented by Data Processing, from a Personal Data Breach point of view.
5.       Sub processing
5.1    Data Processor shall not appoint or disclose any obtained Personal Data to any Sub processor unless required or authorized by Watu.
6.       Data Subject Rights
6.1    Considering the nature of the Data Processing, Data Processor shall assist Watu by implementing appropriate technical and organizational measures, insofar as this is possible, for the fulfillment of the Data Controller’s Obligations as reasonably understood and expected from it, to respond to requests to exercise Data Subject rights under the Uganda Data Protection Act.
7.       Data Processor’s Obligations:
7.1    Shall promptly notify Watu if it receives a request from a Data Subject in respect of obtained Personal Data; and
7.2    Shall ensure that it does not respond to that request except on the documented instructions of Watu or as required by Applicable Laws to which the Data Processor is subject, in which case Data Processor shall to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws under the Act.
7.3    Shall inform Watu before responding to the request.
8.       Personal Data Breach
8.1    Data Processor shall notify Watu without undue delay and within 24 hours upon Data Processor becoming aware of a Personal Data Breach affecting Data Subject’s Personal Data, providing Watu with sufficient information to allow Watu to meet any obligations to report or inform Data Subjects of the Personal Data Breach under the Uganda Data Protection Act. Actual and suspected Personal Data Breaches at the Data Processor or at his Sub processors must be reported to Watu as the Data Controller without undue delay after becoming aware of the breach. The Data Processor shall inform of all relevant circumstances, the measures taken and provide an assessment of the risks arising from the data breach to the Data Subjects concerned.
8.2    Data Processor shall cooperate with Watu and take reasonable commercial steps as directed by Watu to assist in the investigation, mitigation and remediation of each such Personal Data Breach.
8.3    The Data Processor shall answer any queries without undue delay and cooperate closely with Watu in clarifying the circumstances for purposes of filing a notification of a Data Breach to the Office of the Data Protection Commissioner (ODPC) and the notification to the Data Subjects shall be made exclusively by Watu as the Data Controller.
8.4    The Data Processor remains liable for any intentional wrongdoing on its part as regards Data Breaches. The same shall be managed as prescribed under the Uganda Data Protection Act and Watu shall reserve to seek further available legal remedies as may be deemed necessary.
9.       Data Protection Impact Assessment and Prior Consultation
9.1    Processor shall provide reasonable assistance to Watu with any data protection impact assessments, and prior consultations with ODPC or other competent data privacy authorities, which Watu reasonably considers to be required under the provisions of The Data Protection Act, in each case solely in relation to Processing of Personal Data by, and taking into account the nature of the Processing and information available to, the Data Processor.
10.    Deletion or return of Personal Data
10.1 Subject to this section, Data Processor shall promptly and in any event within seven business days of the date of cessation of any Services involving the Processing of Personal Data at the instruction of Watu or termination of the Principal Agreement  (the "Cessation Date"), delete and procure the deletion of all copies of all obtained Personal Data in its custody.
10.2 Data Processor shall provide written certification to the Data Controller that it has fully complied with this section within seven business days of the Cessation Date.
11.    Audit rights
11.1 Subject to this section 11, Data Processor shall make available to Watu on request all information necessary to demonstrate compliance with this Agreement, and shall allow for and contribute to audits, including inspections, by Watu or an auditor mandated by Watu in relation to the Processing of the Data Subject’s Personal Data by the Data Processor and its agents.
12.    Data Transfer
12.1 The Data Processor may not transfer or authorize the transfer of Data outside Uganda without the prior written consent Watu. If Personal Data processed under this Agreement is transferred outside Uganda, the Parties shall ensure that the Personal Data is adequately protected. To achieve this, the Parties shall rely on conditions provided under the Uganda Data Protection Act for the transfer of personal data.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement is entered into with effect from the date first set out below.
WATU CREDIT UGANDA LIMITED – Data Controller
Signature ______________________________
Name: ________________________________
Title: _________________________________
Date Signed: ___________________________
 
 
……………………………………………………… Data Processor
Signature ______________________________
Name _________________________________
Title __________________________________
Date Signed ____________________________